<doc id="43215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43215" title="Hellenistic art">
Hellenistic art

The art of the Hellenistic time (400 B.C. - 0 B.C, a long time in the past, in Greece) is sculpture and painting and other things. For a long time, people said that the art of that time was not good. Pliny the Elder talked about the Greek sculpture of the classical time (500 B.C. - 323 B.C., the time before the Hellenistic time) and then said "Cessavit deinde ars" ("then art stopped"). But much good art is from the Hellenistic time. Many people know about the sculptures Laocoön (in the picture) and Venus de Milo and Winged Victory of Samothrace.

Now more people have looked at writing about the Hellenistic time. People discovered art from the Hellenistic time at Vergina and other places. Now people can see that the art of the Hellenistic time is very good art.

One of the things that made the Hellenistic time different from other times was the division of Alexander the Great's country into smaller parts. In every part there was a family of leaders. The Ptolemies had Egypt; the Seleucids had Mesopotamia, the Attalids had Pergamon, and other leaders had other parts. Every family of leaders gave money for art in a way that was different from the way the city-states did it. They made big cities and complex groups of buildings in a way that most city-states had already stopped doing by 500 BC. This way of making buildings was new for Greece. This way was not to try to change or fix a natural place, but to make the buildings fit the natural place. There were many places for pleasure, for example many theatres and places to walk. The Hellenistic countries were lucky because they had much empty space where they could make big new cities. Some of their new cities were Antioch, Pergamon, and Seleucia on the Tigris.

Pergamon is a very good example of Hellenistic architecture. It started with a simple on the Acropolis (a very big rock).
Different Attalid kings added to it and made a huge group of buildings. The buildings stretch out from the Acropolis in many directions, using the natural way of that part of the earth. The agora, on the south on the lowest level, has along its sides, with "stoai" (beautiful tall stone things to hold up the roof.) The agora is the beginning of a street which goes through the whole Acropolis. On the east and top of the rock are the buildings of the organizers, leaders and soldiers. On the west side, at a middle level, are religious buildings. One of the biggest ones is the one with the Pergamon Altar which is called "of the gods and of the giants" and is one of the most beautiful pieces of Greek sculpture. A very big theatre has benches stretched out over the sides of the hill, for people to sit on, and is able to hold almost 10,000 people.

At that time they liked to make very big things. The second temple of Apollo at Didyma was like that. It was twenty kilometers from Miletus in Ionia. Daphnis of Miletus made the design for it at the end of the fourth century B.C. (about 300 B.C.) but it was never finished. They continued building it until the 2nd century A.D. (past 100 A.D.). The sanctuary (special part of the temple) is one of the largest ever made near the Mediterranean. Inside a very big room, the "cella" has two rows of columns (tall round things) around it. The columns are the Ionic kind, almost 20 metres tall, with much complex stone art on the bases and tops.

Hellenistic sculpture repeats the innovations of the second classicism: perfect sculpture in the round, allowing the statue to be admired from all angles; study of draping and effects of transparency of clothing; suppleness of poses. Thus, Venus de Milo, even while echoing a classic model, is distinguished by the twist of her hips. One seeks, above all, expressivity and atmosphere. This search is particularly flagrant in the portraits: more than the precision of the traits represented, the artist seeks to represent the character of his/her subject. In the great statuary, the artist explores themes such as suffering, sleep or old age. One such is the Barberini Faun of Munich, representing a sleeping satyr with relaxed posture and anxious face, perhaps the prey of nightmares. The "drunk woman", also at Munich, portrays without reservation an old woman, thin, haggard, clutching against herself her jar of wine. Laocoön, strangled by snakes, tries desperately to loosen their grip without affording a glance at his dying sons.

Pergamon did not distinguish itself with its architecture alone: it was also the seat of a brilliant school of sculpture called Pergamene Baroque. The sculptors, imitating the preceding centuries, portray painful moments rendered expressive with three-dimensional compositions, often V-shaped, and anatomical hyper-realism. 

Attalus I (269-197 BC), to commemorate his victory at Caicus against the Gauls — called Galatians by the Greeks — had two series of votive groups sculpted: the first, consecrated on the Acropolis of Pergamon, includes the famous Gaul killing himself and his wife, of which the original is lost (the best copy is in the Massimo alle Terme museum of Rome, see illustration); the second group, offered to Athens, is composed of small bronzes of Greeks, Amazons, gods and giants, Persians and Gauls. Artemis Rospigliosi of the Louvre is probably a copy of one of them; as for copies of the Dying Gaul, they were very numerous in the Roman period. The expression of sentiments, the forcefulness of details — bushy hair and moustaches here — and the violence of the movements are characteristic of the Pergamene style.

These characteristics are pushed to their peak in the friezes of the Great Altar of Pergamon, decorated under the order of Eumenes II (197-159 BC) with a gigantomachy stretching 110 metres in length, illustrating in the stone a poem composed especially for the court. The Olympians triumph in it, each on his side, over Giants most of which are transformed into savage beasts: serpents, birds of prey, lions or bulls. Their mother Gaia, come to their aid, can do nothing and must watch them twist in pain under the blows of the gods.

Another phenomenon appears in Hellenistic sculpture: privatization, which involves the recapture of older public patterns in decorative sculpture. This type of retrospective style also exists in ceramics. As for the portraits, they are tinged with naturalism, under the influence of Roman art.

Few examples of Greek wall paintings have survived the centuries. It has long been necessary to content oneself with studying the Hellenistic influences in Roman frescoes, for example those of Pompeii or Herculaneum. Certain mosaics, however, provide a pretty good idea of the "grand painting" of the period: these are copies of frescoes. An example is the Alexander Mosaic, showing the confrontation of the young conqueror and the Grand King Darius III at the Battle of Issus, a mosaic which adorns the walls of the House of the Faun at Pompeii. It is believed to be a copy of a work described by Pliny the Elder (XXXV, 110) which had been painted by Philoxenus of Eretria for King Cassander of Macedon at the end of the 4th century BC. The mosaic allows us to admire the choice of colours, the composition of the ensemble with turning movement and facial expressivity.

Recent archeological discoveries at the cemetery of Pagasae (close to modern Volos), at the edge of the Pagasetic Gulf, or again at Vergina (1987), in the former kingdom of Macedonia, have brought to light some original works. For example, the tomb said to be that of Philip II has provided a great frieze representing a royal lion hunt, remarkable by its composition, the arrangement of the figures in space and its realistic representation of nature.

The Hellenistic period is equally the time of development of the mosaic, particularly with the works of Sosos of Pergamon, active in the 2nd century BC and the only mosaic artist cited by Pliny (XXXVI, 184). His taste for
trompe l'oeil (optical illusion) and the effects of the medium are found in several works attributed to him such as the "Unswept Floor" in the Vatican museum, representing the leftovers of a repast (fish bones, bones, empty shells, etc.) and the "Dove Basin" at the Capitoline Museum, known by means of a reproduction discovered in Hadrian's Villa. In it one sees four doves perched on the edge of a basin filled with water. One of them is watering herself while the others seem to be resting, which creates effects of reflections and shadow perfectly studied by the artist.

The Hellenistic period is that of the decline of painting on vases. The most common vases are black and uniform, with a shiny appearance approaching that of varnish, decorated with simple motifs of flowers or festoons. It is also the period when vases in relief appeared, doubtless in imitation of vases made of precious metals: wreaths in relief were applied to the body of the vase, or again the one shown here received veins or gadroons. One finds also more complex relief, based on animals or mythological creatures. The shapes of the vases are also inspired by the tradition of metal: thus with the lagynos (pictured here), a wine jar typical of the period.

In parallel there subsisted a tradition of polychromatic figurative painting: the artists sought a greater variety of tints than in the past. However, these newer colours are more delicate and do not support heat. The painting occurred therefore after firing, contrary to the traditional practice. The fragility of the pigments preventing frequent use of these vases, they were reserved for use in funerals.
The most representative copies of this style come from Centuripe in Sicily, where a workshop was active until the 3rd century B.C. These vases are characterized by a base painted pink. The figures, often female, are represented in coloured clothing: blue-violet chiton, yellow himation, white veil. The style is reminiscent of Pompei and is situated much more on the side of the grand contemporary paintings than on the heritage of the red-figure pottery.

Progress in bronze casting made it possible for the Greeks to create large works, such as the Colossus of Rhodes, with a height of 32 meters. Many of the large bronze statues were lost - with the majority being melted to recover the material. Because of this, only the smaller objects still exist. Fortunately, during Hellenistic Greece, the raw materials were plentiful following eastern conquests.

The work on metal vases took on a new fullness: the artists competed among themselves with great virtuosity. At Panagyurishte (now in Bulgaria), skilfully sculpted gold vases have been found: on an amphora, two rearing centaurs form the handles. In Derveni, not far from Salonica, a tomb has provided a great krater with bronze volutes dating from approximately 320 BC and weighing 40 kilograms (Derveni krater).
It is decorated with a 32-centimetre-tall frieze of figures in relief representing Dionysus surrounded by Ariadne and her procession of satyrs and maenads.
The neck is decorated with ornamental motifs while four satyrs in high relief are casually seated on the shoulders of the vase. The evolution is similar for the art of jewellery. The jewellers of the time excelled at handling details and filigrees: thus, the funeral wreaths present very realistic leaves of trees or stalks of wheat. In this period the insetting of precious stones flourished.

The figurines were equally fashionable. They represented divinities as well as subjects from contemporary life. Thus emerged the theme of the "negro", particularly in Ptolemaic Egypt: these statuettes of Black adolescents were successful up to the Roman period. Sometimes, they were reduced to echoing a form from the great sculptures: thus one finds numerous copies in miniature of the Tyche (good luck) of Antioch, of which the original dates to the beginning of the 3rd century BC.

Previously reserved for religious use, in Hellenistic Greece the terra cotta figurine was more frequently used for funerary, and even decorative, purposes. The refinement of molding techniques made it possible to create true miniature statues, with a high level of detail.

In Tanagra, in Boeotia, the figurines, full of lively colours, most often represent elegant women in scenes full of charm. At Smyrna, in Asia Minor, two major styles occurred side-by-side: first of all, copies of masterpieces of great sculpture, such as Farnese Hercules in gilt terra cotta. In a completely different genre, there are the "grotesques", which contrast violently with the canons of "Greek beauty": the "koroplathos" (figurine maker) fashions deformed bodies in tortuous poses — hunchbacks, epileptics, hydrocephalics, obese women, etc. One could therefore wonder whether these were medical models, the town of Smyrna being reputed for its medical school. Or they could simply be caricatures, designed to provoke laughter. The "grotesques" are equally common at Tarsus and also at Alexandria.

It was in the Hellenistic period that the Greeks, who until then only knew molded glass, discovered the technique of glass blowing, thus permitting new forms. The art of glass developed especially in Italy. Molded glass continued, notably in the creation of intaglio jewelry.

The art of engraving on gems hardly advanced at all, limiting itself to mass-produced items that lacked originality. As compensation, the cameo made its appearance. It concerns cutting in relief on a stone composed of several colored layers, allowing the object to be presented in relief through the effects of color. After that it is mounted on a pendant or as a ring. The Hellenistic period produced some masterpieces like the Gonzaga cameo, now preserved at the Hermitage Museum.





</doc>
<doc id="43216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43216" title="Interest">
Interest

Interest is the cost for borrowing money or the payment for lending money. Usually, this is fixed as a percentage of the amount of money borrowed (Which is called "Interest rate").

If the interest charged on $100 is 1 percent per year then every year the borrower must pay $1. If the $1 is not added to the amount owed then the borrower is paying simple interest. If simple interest of 1 percent is paid each year at the end of 100 years the borrower would have paid $100 in interest, $1 each year, and would still owe $100. If the $1 is added to the $100 the amount owed will increase to $101. 1 percent interest on $101 will be more than $1. This is called compound interest. Compound interest will cause the amount to grow each year. As the amount grows larger more is paid as interest each year and added to the total. If compound interest of 1 percent is paid on a loan of $100 each year the amount of interest paid will slightly increase and after 70 years the amount owed will have grown to $200 and the interest payment will have increased to $2.

1 percent compound interest on $100 will cause the amount to double to $200 in about 70 years. That is called the rule of 70 which can be used to figure out how fast something grows. The rule can be used to figure out how fast anything that always grows at the same rate will double in size. Suppose a kangaroo grows 10 percent a year; dividing 10 into 70 gives 7, so the kangaroo will double in size in 7 years. If the kangaroo grew 7 percent a year it would take 10 years for its size to double. If it only grew 2 percent it would take 35 years for its size to double.

At some times in the past, or in some places today, it has been illegal to make a person pay interest on a loan. It was, or is, against some religious rules. If the interest that a person must pay is too high, this is called usury. This is often illegal today, even when lower interest is legal.

Interest can also be the care or concern that someone has for something or someone. If someone cares about something, they "have an interest" in that thing, or they "find it interesting". If something is beautiful, or funny, or new, that might make the thing interesting. However, a very important concern, for example love or hate, is more than an interest. An interest can also be a task that someone likes to do or watch, like a game or a hobby.

If someone has a legal right to something (usually money or property) they have an interest in that thing. This is also true for someone who shares a right with others, or a person who has a future right to something. For example, if some brothers and sisters will be given a house after their parents die, each of them "has a financial interest" in the house, even if the parents are still living.


</doc>
<doc id="43217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43217" title="Newcastle, New South Wales">
Newcastle, New South Wales

Newcastle is a city in New South Wales, Australia. It is also the second oldest city in Australia. Newcastle is 160km north of Sydney, and is the largest coal-harbour in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="43219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43219" title="Era">
Era

An era is a very long time, probably millions of years. Scientists talk about eras like the Mesozoic era, when dinosaurs lived on the Earth. 

Earth's existence is separated by geologists into even longer times called eons. A number of eras make up an eon.
We are now in the Cenozoic Era of the Phanerozoic Eon. Cenozoic is from a Greek word meaning "new life", that is, the time of the newest life on Earth. 

The Phanerozoic Eon started about 545 million years ago. It is made up of the Paleozoic (from the Greek for "oldest life") Era, the Mesozoic ("middle life") Era and the Cenozoic Era.

The Paleozoic Era started about 545 million years ago, then the Cenozoic Era started about 248 million years ago. This was followed by our era, the Cenozoic Era, which started about 65 million years ago.


</doc>
<doc id="43220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43220" title="Drowning">
Drowning

Drowning means dying from not being able to breathe in air and breathing in water or another liquid.
Near drowning is the survival of drowning where the person passes out or breathes in water, and can cause serious problems, including death, after the event. That means that near drowning can also need attention by doctors.

Secondary drowning is death caused by chemical or biological changes in the lungs after a near drowning incident.

In many countries, drowning is one of the biggest causes of death for children under 14 years old. Children have drowned in wading pools and even bath tubs. Many people drown in countries where there is a lot of water, especially if they swim in dangerous waters. For example, in the United Kingdom there are about 450 drownings each year (that is: 1 per 150,000 of its people), and in the United States there are about 6,500 drownings (or around 1 per 50,000 of its people). Drowning related injuries are the fifth most likely cause of accidental death in the US. In some places, drowning is the second most likely cause of injury and death for children. Victims are more likely to be male, young or teenage. Surveys say that 10% of children under 5 have been through a situation where they could have drowned. 


</doc>
<doc id="43222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43222" title="Schrödinger's cat">
Schrödinger's cat

Schrödinger's cat is a thought experiment about quantum physics. Erwin Schrödinger proposed it in 1935, in reaction to the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum physics. With this thought experiment, Schrödinger wanted to show that way of thinking about quantum mechanics would lead to absurd situations: in this case, a cat being both alive and dead at the same time.

The thought experiment went like this: A cat is placed in a room that is separated from the outside world. A Geiger counter and a little bit of a radioactive element are in the room. Within some time, say one hour, one of the atoms of the radioactive material may decay (or break down, this is because the material is not stable), or it may not. The Geiger counter can measure that. If the material breaks down, it will release poisonous gas, which will kill the cat.

The question now is: at the end of the hour, is the cat alive or dead?

Schrödinger says that as long as the door is closed, the cat could be dead or alive. There is no way to know until the door is opened.

The problem is in that by opening the room, the person is interfering with the experiment. The person and the experiment have to be described with reference to each other.
By "looking" at the experiment the person has influenced the experiment. A famous physics theory (the Copenhagen interpretation) said that the cat was both dead and alive until its observation proved it to be one or the other (Superposition).

The cat situation was first proposed by Schrödinger to actually demonstrate the foolishness of thinking about quantum states at macro levels. It has also been referenced many times in pop culture.


</doc>
<doc id="43224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43224" title="Wollongong, New South Wales">
Wollongong, New South Wales

Wollongong is a city in New South Wales, Australia, located on the eastern coast of Australia, south of Sydney. It is the third largest city in New South Wales, after Sydney and Newcastle.


</doc>
<doc id="43225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43225" title="Yule">
Yule

Yuletide is an pagan holiday also known as the Winter solstice. Generally celebrated by Wiccans and Northern European Christians, it has been celebrated for over 10,000 years. "Yuletide" is a British invented holiday, just like all Pagan holidays. "Yuletide" celebrates the birth of the Sun and also celebrates the "Mother" at the height of her "Greatness". 
Pagans celebrate Yuletide in many ways, most will decorate a "Yuletide" tree, keep it in their homes until most of the leaves fall off then burn the Yule log. Many Wiccans will decorate their alters with Yule colours and items and generally just honour the Goddess.

The Christian holiday, Christmas, was created by the Christian Romans based around the polytheistic (many Gods) Sun God festival (Sol Invictis) on the winter solstice, and people in northern Europe combined it with their Yule festival. Yule is celebrated on the 25th of December by most Northern Europeans and the 21st of December, by Wiccans and many non religious groups. For them, Yule is celebrated as the longest night of the year. It is the night when the sun sets earliest and rises latest the next day. The Wiccan ritual includes thanking the Goddess for the past year and asking for a happiness in the year to come.

</div>



</doc>
<doc id="43229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43229" title="List of Cities in Australia">
List of Cities in Australia

This is a list of cities in Australia sorted by state.










</doc>
<doc id="43233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43233" title="Warrnambool, Victoria">
Warrnambool, Victoria

Warrnambool is a city on the south-western coast of Victoria, Australia. About 32,000 people live in the city. It is at the western end of the Great Ocean Road. It is also on the the Princes Highwaywhich links Melbourne and Adelaide. Warrnambool is 265 kilometres and 3 hours from Melbourne by road or rail. The name "Warrnambool" is an Indigenous Australian word meaning "water between two rivers", "two swamps", or "plenty of water".

There are daily trains to Melbourne, via Geelong, and buses to Ballarat, Hamilton and Mount Gambier, South Australia.

The average maximum temperatures are 22 C in summer and 14 C in winter.

It is possible that the first European people to come to Warrnambool arrived in the 1500s. There is a wrecked ship in the sand dunes near Warrnambool which historians believe is an early Portugese ship. It may have been part of an expedition in 1522, led by Christovao Mendonca. The wreck was first seen in 1836, but the last sighting was in 1880. Tt is now covered in sand, and its exact location is now unknown. It is just one of the 80 wrecked ships along the coast. There are 29 wrecks in Lady Bay at Warrnambool. The first recorded exploration of this part of the Victorian coast was by the French explorer Nicholas Baudin in 1802. During the 1830s whaler hunters lived on the coast during the whaling season.

Farmers began to settle along the coast during the 1840's. In 1846 the town was surveyed and laid out, and the first land sale was held in 1847.


</doc>
<doc id="43238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43238" title="Whitney Sloan">
Whitney Sloan

Whitney Adela Sloan (born August 21, 1988) is an English actress. She is from London, England. Perhaps her most notable role is in a recent Disney made movie, "Go Figure".


</doc>
<doc id="43239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43239" title="Macedonia">
Macedonia

'Macedonia' is the name of a region in Southeastern Europe which has a rich history and culture. The name Macedonia may refer to:
Also:


</doc>
<doc id="43240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43240" title="Rock, paper, scissors">
Rock, paper, scissors

Rock, paper, scissors is a two-person hand game. It is often used as a selection method in a similar way to coin flipping or drawing straws to randomly select a person for some purpose. However, unlike truly random selections, it can be played with skill if the game extends over many sessions, as a player can often recognize and exploit the non-random behavior of an opponent.

Sportsmen often use RPS (both officially and unofficially, in place of a coin toss) to decide on opening plays. Similarly, uncertain calls, or even the whole game in case of rain, may be so decided. It is also often used as a method for creating appropriately non-biased random results in live action role-playing games, as it requires no equipment. It is also used in some gambling sites as a form of novelty betting.

The exact name of the game can vary, with the three components appearing in a different order, or with "stone" in place of "rock". Non-English speakers may know the game by their local words for "rock, paper, scissors", although it is also known as Janken or Yakyuken in Japan, Kawi Bawi Bo in Korea, Pierre-Papier-Ciseaux in France, Ca-Chi-Pun in Chile, and in South Africa as Ching-Chong-Cha, the words used in the 'count'.

The players both count aloud to three, or speak the name of the game (e.g. "Rock! Paper! Scissors!" or "Reaux! Sham! Beaux!"), each time raising one hand in a fist and swinging it down on the count. On the third count, or on a further beat after the third count (saying "shoot"), the players change their hands into one of three gestures, which they then "throw" by extending it towards their opponent.

Rock is represented by a closed fist. 
Paper is represented by an open hand. 
Scissors is represented by the index and middle fingers extended. 
The objective is to select a gesture which defeats that of the opponent. Gestures are resolved as follows:

Rock blunts/smashes scissors; rock wins. 
Paper covers rock; paper wins. 
Scissors cut paper; scissors wins. 
If both players choose the same gesture, the game is tied and played again.

In some variations of the game, the winner of each round "uses" the weapon on the opponent's weapon, to demonstrate that they have won.

RPS is frequently played in a "best two out of three" match, and tournament players often prepare sequences of three gestures ahead of time.


</doc>
<doc id="43244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43244" title="Darwin">
Darwin

Darwin can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="43248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43248" title="Katie Leung">
Katie Leung

Katie Liu Leung is a Scottish actress, who is most famous for her roles as Cho Chang in the Harry Potter series. She was born on August 8, 1987, in Motherwell, Scotland. 

Her parents, Peter and Kar Wai Li Leung, are Chinese immigrants. After her parents got divorced, She lives with her father in a £400,000 house in Motherwell. Her two brothers (one named Jonathan) and a younger sister, Violet, also live with her. Her father owns a restaurant and a fast food business in Motherwell. Leung went to school at Hamilton College, a Scottish private school in Glasgow. She is learning Cantonese and Mandarin.


</doc>
<doc id="43249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43249" title="Category:American soccer teams">
Category:American soccer teams

This category is for football/soccer teams that play mostly in the United States. All teams that play in Major League Soccer as well as any independent teams located in the United States should be listed here.


</doc>
<doc id="43252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43252" title="Category:Sports clubs">
Category:Sports clubs


</doc>
<doc id="43262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43262" title="Film noir">
Film noir

Film noir is a term used to describe crime drama movies from Hollywood that are often focused on sex, crime, and corruption. 

Film noir movies were mostly made from the early 1940s to the late 1950s in the United States, and they were usually filmed in black-and-white. The term "film noir" comes from the French term for "black film." Film noir movies include many different genres of movies, such as gangster movies, police movies, and detective movies. 

Film noir movies were often filmed so that there were many dark shadows in the movie, even on characters' faces. The Hollywood film noir movies were influenced by German film directors such as Fritz Lang, who used dramatic lighting techniques. Another influence on film noir movies was 1930s French books or movies about heroes who would die at the end of the story or stories with sad endings. Film noir movies were also influenced by crime novels, such as the detective and crime stories by Dashiell Hammett, James M. Cain, and Raymond Chandler.

Some important film noir movies are: "Stranger on the Third Floor" (1940); "The Maltese Falcon" (1941) "Double Indemnity" (1944) "The Big Sleep" (1946) "The Postman Always Rings Twice" (1946); "Key Largo" (1948);"Kiss Me Deadly" (1955), and "Touch of Evil" (1958). 

The important actors from Hollywood film noir movies were Robert Mitchum, Humphrey Bogart, and Peter Lorre.

The film noir period was the 1940s and 1950s. Even in the years after the 1950s, some movies were made in the film noir style. In the 1960s and 1970s, there were movies like "The Manchurian Candidate" (1962) and "Chinatown" (1974), which were influenced by the film noir movies from the 1950s.

In the 1980s and 1990s there were movies that were a bit like film noir movies, like "Body Heat" (1981), "Basic Instinct" (1992), "Kill Me Again" (1989)," Red Rock West" (1992), and "Fargo" (1996). In the 2000s, there are also movies that are like film noir movies in some ways. For example, there are films such as "Memento" (2000) and "Sin City" (2005). 

There are also science fiction movies that look a bit like film noir movies because they look dark and they have a lead character who does some bad things, such as "Soylent Green" (1973); "Blade Runner" (1982), which starred Harrison Ford; and "Minority Report" (2002), which starred Tom Cruise.

Film noir movies are often shot in cities at night, and the stories often take place in bars, nightclubs, gambling clubs, casinos, and cheap hotels. This makes film noir movies look very dark, because the scenes are shot at night, or inside dark places like a bar or hotel.

Film noir movie scenes often have a lot of shadows, such as the shadows of window frames, blinds, or stair banisters. There are also often dark shadows on the movie scenes, even on the faces of the actors. All of the shadows and darkness make the film noir movies feel mysterious and stressful. 

The characters in film noir movies are often motivated by greed, jealousy, or revenge. The characters in film noir movies are often private detectives or police officers who are investigating crimes committed by bad criminals and gang members such as murder, gambling or prostitution. In film noir movies, there are often stories about robberies, heists, extortion of money (which is called "blackmail"), or murder.

In film noir movies, even the heroes or lead characters are often bad or partly bad in some way. For example, the hero of a film noir movie may help an innocent man or woman who is being threatened by a criminal, or rescue a woman from a criminal gang. Yet the hero or lead character may also do bad things, such as commit crimes, hurt or threaten people, or tell lies. 

Often, the hero or lead character of a film noir film will be bitter, sad, lonely, or depressed, because of bad things that happened to them. The person watching the movie has to decide if they think that a hero who does both good and bad things is a good person or not. The stories from film noir movies can make the audience think about how people should act, or how people should make choices in their life. This is one of the things that people like about watching film noir movies.

Film noir movies are not happy movies. In happy movies, like romance movies, people fall in love, get married, and live happy lives. In film noir movies, sad things happen. A good man with a wife might need money for their rent, and borrow the money from a criminal gang leader, because the good man has no other way of getting the money. Then the bad gang leader might force the good man to do bad things to pay back the money. Maybe the bad gang leader will threaten to hurt the good man's wife. Then the good man has to decide between protecting his wife or doing a bad crime. 

People who watch film noir movies like to see stories about people who have to make hard choices, or people whose lives have sad things happen in them. Real life is not all happy and perfect like in romantic films; people often have to make hard choices or have sad things happen. For this reason, film noir movies are a bit more like real life than romantic movies.

Robert Ottoson wrote a book in 1981 about film noir called "A Reference Guide to the American Film Noir: 1940–1958".



</doc>
<doc id="43263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43263" title="Jazz fusion">
Jazz fusion

Jazz fusion (or "jazz-rock fusion" or fusion) is a style of music. Jazz fusion music mixes jazz music styles with rock music styles. Some types of jazz fusion music also use music from funk music, R&B (Rhythm and Blues) music, and world music. 

Jazz fusion music is usually performed only with instruments, without singing. Jazz fusion music songs are often longer than pop music songs. A jazz fusion song could be five or even ten minutes long. A pop song is usually only three minutes long or less. 

As well, jazz fusion songs have long solos (melodies) played by instruments, Frank Zappa, for example, had long guitar solos in his music, which was of the jazz fusion genre. During a solo, one instrument plays a melody. In jazz fusion, solos are improvised ("made up") during a performance. 

Jazz fusion music does not get played on the radio much in the United States or Canada. Radio stations in Europe play more jazz fusion recordings.

Jazz fusion began in the late 1960s in the United States. In the late 1960s jazz musicians such as Miles Davis and a band called The Tony Williams Lifetime began using electric instruments such as electric bass and electric piano in their jazz music. As well, jazz musicians began using rhythms or beats from soul music, rhythm and blues music, and rock music in their jazz music. Two important jazz fusion albums are "In a Silent Way" and "Bitches Brew." 

In the 1970s, more people began playing jazz fusion. As well, more people began listening to jazz fusion and going to jazz fusion concerts. In the 1970s, jazz musicians such as Herbie Hancock, Joe Zawinul, Jan Hammer and Chick Corea began using electronic synthesizers in their songs.

In the early 1980s, a new style of jazz fusion called "pop fusion" began being played. This new style of pop fusion was softer and slower than fusion from the early 1970s. Pop fusion was played a lot more on the radio than the fusion from the early 1970s. Pop fusion musicians include Lee Ritenour, Al Jarreau, Kenny G, Bob James and David Sanborn.
Steve Vai was an icon of Jazz fusion in the 1980's and played extensive guitar based jazz fusion instrumentals.


</doc>
<doc id="43266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43266" title="Stadio Olimpico">
Stadio Olimpico

Stadio Olimpico is a sports stadium in Rome, Italy.



</doc>
<doc id="43267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43267" title="Insulation">
Insulation

Insulation reduces or stops the flow of energy. Electricity and heat are two main types of energy that insulators prevent from moving. The insulator on an electric cord stops electricity from hurting a person that touches the cord.

The main types of insulation are:


</doc>
<doc id="43270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43270" title="Arc de Triomphe">
Arc de Triomphe

The Arc de Triomphe, in the end of the Champs-Elysées, is a very famous monument in Paris.

It was commissioned in 1806 after the victory at Austerlitz by Emperor Napoléon Bonaparte. It is a large arc, and even though it may be thought by some people that you can drive underneath it, you cannot. It was designed by Jean-Francois Chalgrin and has roughly 300 steps. It has four main sculptures and six reliefs. Just beneath the vault of the arc there is the tomb of the unknown soldier. The names of french generals and battles are engraved on the walls.


</doc>
<doc id="43271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43271" title="Show">
Show

A show is a theatrical, cinema, music or choreographic representation. It can be a play, a movie, a concert, an opera or a television program.


</doc>
<doc id="43273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43273" title="Traffic light">
Traffic light

Traffic signals are instruments for controlling traffic by using changing lights. They are used for controlling traffic. The order the lights change in the UK are as follows:

Repeat process

Garrett A. Morgan is credited with the following:
William Potts was a police officer who invented a (maybe the first) traffic light. Being a government offical, he was not able to patent it.


</doc>
<doc id="43274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43274" title="Railway signal">
Railway signal

A railway signal or just signal is a mechanical or electrical machine that gives train drivers or engineers information about the state of the line ahead. This way, they know whether the train must stop or may continue. It can also tell what speed the train may go.


</doc>
<doc id="43278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43278" title="Maitland, New South Wales">
Maitland, New South Wales

Maitland is a city in New South Wales, Australia. The city is on the Hunter River. Maitland is 200 km north of Sydney and 30 km northwest of Newcastle. Maitland is sometimes called the largest city, that is not on the sea in New South Wales. The Maitland Gaol, which closed in 1998, is now a tourist attraction.



</doc>
<doc id="43279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43279" title="Benalla, Victoria">
Benalla, Victoria

Benalla is a city in Victoria, Australia. It is a city even though only 10,000 people live there. Benalla is on the Hume Highway between Sydney and Melbourne. The town is on the Broken River, which often floods. Benalla has a station on the main railway line between Sydney and Melbourne. 

Major Thomas Mitchell went through this area on his way back to Sydney in 1836. One of the men with him, a convict named James Taylor, was drowned while trying to cross the Broken River. After Mitchell many farmers arrived with sheep to make new farms. The Reverend James Docker started a farm called ""Benalta"" in 1838. The name came from the Taungurung Australian aboriginal word meaning "musk duck".. The name later changed to Benalla. 

Seven men, working for farmers George and William Faithfull, were killed by the aborigines at Winding Swamp on April 11 1838. The police under Captain Lonsdale killed many Taungurung people as punishment. Their ears were cut off and taken back to Melbourne as a trophy (prize).

The town of Benalla was surveyed in 1846.

The Benalla Botanical Gardens were started in 1886. They cover an area of . The gardens are well known for their collection of roses. The gardens also have three "Ulmus x viminalis" , an elm tree hybrid. These trees are listed on the Significant Tree Register of the National Trust.. They are the only known examples of the hybrid elm in Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="43281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43281" title="Grafton, New South Wales">
Grafton, New South Wales

Grafton is a small city on the northern coast of New South Wales, Australia. It is on the Clarence River and is 640 kilometres north of Sydney. The town is famous for its double-decker road/railway bridge.


</doc>
<doc id="43293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43293" title="Zupaysaurus">
Zupaysaurus

Zupaysaurus was a dinosaur that lived in South America 213 million years ago, during the Upper Triassic period. It was about 5 meters (15 feet) long. A dinosaur very similar to it, "Dracovenator", lived in South Africa at the same time. 

During the Triassic period, all the continents were connected to form the supercontinent of Pangaea, and animals could migrate freely between them. Zupaysaurus was a carnivore. 


</doc>
<doc id="43295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43295" title="Zephyrosaurus">
Zephyrosaurus

Zephyrosaurus was a small dinosaur. It was a relative of Hypsilophodon. It lived 132 million years ago.
It means zephyrs(God of the west wind)lizard.It lived in the western part of north america.It was 6 ft (2 metres) long and 3ft (1 metre) high.


</doc>
<doc id="43296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43296" title="Hypsilophodon">
Hypsilophodon

Hypsilophodon was a small, fast-running, plant-eating dinosaur. It lived 125 million years ago, was 2.3 metres long (7/8 feet), including tail, and weighed about the same as a man.

It was originally thought to be a young "Iguanodon" which could climb trees. Later it was realised to be a different species, and to be a running dinosaur, not adapted for climbing.

Like most small dinosaurs, "Hypsilophodon" was bipedal and ran on two legs. Its entire body was built for running; a light-weight, low, aerodynamic posture, long legs and stiff tail for balance. All this would have allowed it to travel remarkably fast for its size.

"Hypsilophodon" fed on low-growing vegetation, most likely preferring young shoots and roots in the manner of modern deer. The structure of its skull, with the teeth set far back into the jaw, strongly suggests that it had cheeks, an advanced feature that would have facilitated the chewing of food. There were twenty-eight to thirty ridged teeth in the animal's jaw which, due to their alternate arrangement, appear to have been self-sharpening. As in almost all dinosaurs and certainly all the ornithischians, the teeth were continuously replaced.

The level of parental care in this dinosaur has not been defined, although a neatly-arranged nest has been found, suggesting that some care was taken before hatching. Fossils of large groups have been found, so it is likely that the animals moved in herds. For these reasons, the hypsilophodonts, particularly "Hypsilophodon", have often been referred to as the "deer of the Mesozoic".

Despite living in the Cretaceous, "Hypsilophodon" had a number of primitive, or basal, features. For example, there were five fingerss on each 'hand' and four on each foot. Most dinosaurs had fewer digits by the Cretaceous period. Also, although it had a beak, "Hypsilophodon" still had pointed triangular teeth in the front of the jaw. Most herbivorous dinosaurs had, by this stage, lost the front teeth altogether (although there is some debate as to whether these teeth may have had a specialized function in "Hypsilophodon").

The group Hypsilophodontidae remained the same from the Upper Jurassic to the end of the Cretaceous. It is possible that this was because the animals were almost perfectly adapted to their lifestyle, therefore selective pressure, it is assumed, was low.

The family named after "Hysilophodon" has these genera:



</doc>
<doc id="43298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43298" title="Dryosaurus">
Dryosaurus

Dryosaurus was a small plant-eating ornithopod dinosaur that lived in forests around 150 million years ago. 

Its family, the Dryosauridae, were precursors (ancestors) of the Iguanodons, and lived from the Middle Jurassic to the Lower Cretaceous.


</doc>
<doc id="43299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43299" title="Iguanodon">
Iguanodon

Iguanodon is a genus of ornithopod dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous period in Europe, North America, Africa and Asia. It lived 125/126 million years ago.

Discovered in 1822 and described three years later by English geologist Gideon Mantell, "Iguanodon" was the second dinosaur formally named, after "Megalosaurus". Together with "Megalosaurus" and "Hylaeosaurus", it was one of the three genera originally used to define Dinosauria. 

A large, bulky herbivore, "Iguanodon" is thought by some to be in the same family as the duck-billed hadrosaurs. The taxonomy of the genus continues to be a topic of study as new species are named or long-standing ones reassigned to other genera.

Scientific understanding of "Iguanodon" has evolved over time as new information has been obtained from the fossils. The numerous specimens of this genus, including nearly complete skeletons from two well-known bonebeds, have allowed researchers to make informed hypotheses regarding many aspects of the living animal, including feeding, movement, and social behaviour. As one of the first scientifically well-known dinosaurs, "Iguanodon" has occupied a small but notable place in the public's perception of dinosaurs, its artistic representation changing significantly in response to new interpretations of its remains.


</doc>
<doc id="43300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43300" title="Xylem">
Xylem

Xylem is a vein in plants. Substances that xylem transport include water and minerals obtained through the plant's roots, as xylem runs through the xylem from the roots to the stem. It is one of two vessels in the plant which transports substances that plants need to live. The other one is the phloem, which transports energy in the form of sugar (as well as any other material made or taken in by the leaves) to the rest of the plant.

Xylem tissue is dead, causing it to be hard like wood. It contains many smaller tubed sections within its middle, each being porous and rigid. Water is carried against gravity by using the pressure built up through the process of transpiration (simply, the evaporation of leaf water).


</doc>
<doc id="43301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43301" title="Allosaurus">
Allosaurus

Allosaurus was a large theropod dinosaur from the Jurassic period. 

"Allosaurus" was a predatory carnivore. It averaged eight to nine meters in length (25/30ft), with fully grown individuals as long as 12 to 13 meters (40ft). It weighed 1-3 tons.

It is the most common large predator found in the Morrison Formation of North America. This formation was laid down 155 to 145 million years ago, in the Jurassic.

"Allosaurus" was at the top of the food chain. It probably preyed on large herbivorous dinosaurs and perhaps even other predators (e.g. "Ceratosaurus"). Potential prey included ornithopods, stegosaurs, and sauropods. 

Some paleontologists think "Allosaurus" had cooperative behavior, and hunted in packs. Others believe they may have been aggressive toward each other. 

Groups have been found together in the fossil record. This might be evidence of pack behavior, or just the result of lone individuals feeding on the same carcass. 

Remains of many individuals have been found, including some which are almost complete. Over sixty individuals from one species have been found.

Sauropods, live or dead, seem to be likely candidates as prey. Sauropod bones with holes fitting allosaur teeth, and the presence of shed allosaur teeth with sauropod bones have been found. 

There is dramatic evidence for allosaur attacks on "Stegosaurus". An "Allosaurus" tail vertebra has been found with a partially healed puncture which fits a "Stegosaurus" tail spike. Also, there is a "Stegosaurus" neck plate with a U-shaped wound that correlates well with an "Allosaurus" snout. 

"Allosaurus" was probably not a predator of fully grown sauropods, unless it hunted in packs. It had a modestly sized skull and relatively small teeth, and was greatly outweighed by adult sauropods. Another possibility is that it preferred to hunt juveniles instead of fully grown adults.

Researchers have made other suggestions. Robert T. Bakker compared the short teeth to serrations on a saw. This saw-like cutting edge runs the length of the upper jaw, and could have been driven into prey. This type of jaw would permit slashing attacks against much larger prey, with the goal of weakening the victim.

Another study showed the skull was very strong but had a relatively small bite force. The authors suggested that "Allosaurus" used its skull like a hatchet against prey, attacking open-mouthed, slashing flesh with its teeth, and tearing it away without splintering bones. 

They suggested that different strategies could be used against different prey. The skull was light enough to allow attacks on smaller and more agile ornithopods, but strong enough for high-impact ambush attacks against larger prey like stegosaurs and sauropods. 

Their ideas were challenged by other researchers, who found no modern examples of a hatchet attack. They thought it more likely that the skull was strong to absorb stresses from struggling prey. 

The original authors noted that "Allosaurus" itself has no modern equivalent, so the absence of a modern 'hatchet attacker' was not significant. They thought the tooth row was well-suited to such an attack, and that articulations (joints) in the skull helped to lessen stress. 

Another possibility for handling large prey is that theropods like "Allosaurus" were 'flesh grazers' which could take bites of flesh out of living sauropods, sufficient to sustain the predator so it did not need to kill the prey outright. This strategy might have allowed the prey to recover and be fed upon again later. 
Another idea is that ornithopods, the most common available prey, could be subdued by "Allosaurus" grasping the prey with their forelimbs, and then making bites on the throat to crush the trachea. The forelimbs were strong and capable of restraining prey, and the articulation of the claws suggests that they could have been used to hook things. 

The shape of the "Allosaurus" skull limited binocular vision to 20° of width, slightly less than that of modern crocodilians. As with crocodiles, this may have been enough to judge prey distance and time attacks. The similar width of their field of view suggests that allosaurs, like modern crocodiles, were ambush hunters. 

Finally, the top speed of "Allosaurus" has been estimated at 30 to 55 kilometers per hour (19 to 34 miles per hour).

There are five recognised species of "Allosaurus": 

"Allosaurus", like "Tyrannosaurus", has come to represent the quintessential large, carnivorous dinosaur in popular culture. 

It is a common dinosaur in museums. A number of museums cooperated in excavations at the Cleveland Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry. By 1976, museums in eight countries on three continents had Cleveland-Lloyd allosaur material or casts. "Allosaurus" is the official 'state fossil' of Utah.

"Allosaurus" is top predator in both Arthur Conan Doyle's 1912 novel, "The Lost World", and its 1925 film adaptation, the first full-length motion picture to feature dinosaurs. 

"Allosaurus" was used as the starring dinosaur of the 1956 film "The Beast of Hollow Mountain", and the 1969 film "The Valley of Gwangi". Gwangi is billed as an "Allosaurus", though Ray Harryhausen based his model for the creature on Charles R. Knight's depiction of a "Tyrannosaurus". "Allosaurus" appeared in the second episode of the 1999 BBC television series "Walking with Dinosaurs" and the follow-up special "The Ballad of Big Al", which speculated on the life of the 'Big Al' specimen, as revealed by the numerous injuries and pathologies in its skeleton.


</doc>
<doc id="43303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43303" title="Ceratosaurus">
Ceratosaurus

Ceratosaurus was a predatory dinosaur from the Jurassic period (156 Million Years up to 145 Million years). It was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" being killed by an Allosaurus.


</doc>
<doc id="43304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43304" title="Carnotaurus">
Carnotaurus

Carnotaurus was a predatory dinosaur that lived 70 million years ago. Many people think Carnotaurus was a carnosaur related to Allosaurus. But it actually is a relative of "Abelisaurus".
It is best described in it`s part in the movie "Dinosaur" (2000), when two "Carnotaurus" were fighting with "Iguanodon", "Pachyrhinosaurus" and other species.


</doc>
<doc id="43306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43306" title="Coelophysis">
Coelophysis

Coelophysis was a small fast running carnivorous dinosaur. It is one of the earliest known genera of dinosaur. "Coelophysis" was found in Upper Triassic strata dated to about 215 million years age. It lived in what is now the southwestern United States. Similar dinosaurs are found all over the world at that time.

"Coelophysis" walked on two legs (as did all theropods). It was no more than about three feet (1 meter) tall at the hips but because of a long tail could be almost 10 feet (3 meters) long. There is some evidence that these animals hunted in packs, from the large numbers found together at the Ghost Ranch fossil site in New Mexico. 

Two different sizes of this species have been found in the fossil record. At first paleontologists (scientists who study the fossil remains of dinosaurs) thought that they were two different species, but most now think that this is because "Coelophysis" males were larger than the females. This trait, known as sexual dimorphism, is often seen today in many species, including humans (although it is much less extreme in humans than in, for example, elephant seals).

For a while, it was thought that "Coelophysis" were cannibalistic, because what looked like "Coelophysis" babies were seen in the stomach of an adult "Coelophysis". However, Rob Gay in 2002 showed that that these specimens were misinterpreted. Several specimens of "juvenile coelophysids" were actually small crurotarsan reptiles such as "Hesperosuchus". In some cases bigger individuals were crushed on top of smaller ones). There is no longer any evidence to support cannibalistic behavior in "Coelophysis".

In 1998, a "Coelophysis" skull from the was taken into space on the Space Shuttle Endeavour. It also spent some time on the space station Mir before being returned to Earth.

"Coelophysis" is the state fossil of New Mexico.


</doc>
<doc id="43307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43307" title="Dilophosaurus">
Dilophosaurus

Dilophosaurus (meaning 'double-crested lizard') was a huge dinosaur from 200 million years ago. It has a small relative named Coelophysis. "Dilophosaurus" was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" scaring off a pack of "Megapnosaurus" and eating an "Anchisaurus".

Dilophosaurus ate lizards. It was a meat-eater. 


</doc>
<doc id="43308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43308" title="SimCity 4">
SimCity 4

SimCity 4 is the fourth sequel to the SimCity computer game. It was created by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts.

The main new feature in this game is the addition of 'God Mode'. This is one of the three elements of gameplay. Players can add mountains, lakes, rivers and canyons to their landscape.

Another feature is "MySims" mode, a mode that lets players import their Sims from the game The Sims and add them into their city. This lets players see what they are thinking.

Cities are grouped into regions, which allow different cities in the same region to be connected. They can be connected by road or train, and cities could share water. Some regions come with the game, but you can create your own.

RCI stands for residential (housing), commercial, and industry demand. The higher the demand, the faster the city grows. No demand or negative demand causes buildings to be empty and run down. 

Big buildings show up when you have high density zones. The amount of people living in the city changes the amount of skyscrapers built in the city. Skyscrapers can be built when residential population reaches 30,000, and when commercial population reaches 45,000.


</doc>
<doc id="43309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43309" title="Category:Plesiosaurs">
Category:Plesiosaurs


</doc>
<doc id="43311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43311" title="Elasmosaurus">
Elasmosaurus

Elasmosaurus was a 46 foot long swimming reptile that lived in North America. It was a plesiosaur. It was first discovered in 1868 by a scientist named Edward Drinker Cope who accidentally put the head on the tail. It had over 70 vertebrae. 


</doc>
<doc id="43314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43314" title="Waffen-SS">
Waffen-SS

The Waffen-SS was part of the SS. "Waffen" is a German word meaning "Arms". The Waffen-SS was a paramilitary organisation within the SS. The divisions of the Waffen-SS were positioned as elite troops. Their original task was to protect higher-ranking personnel of the SS and the NSDAP. Together with people from the SA they were used as a police force. The Waffen-SS was officially an auxiliary police force on the streets. In 1937, some troops were reorganised. Those parts of the SS that had the primary function to guard and operate Detention Camps were re-organised as "SS-Totenkopfverbände". Experiments on humans, as they were done in KZ Buchenwald and other detention camps were led by doctors of the Waffen-SS.

They were led by Heinrich Himmler. After the World War II, they were found guilty of crimes against humanity, and the SS was dissolved.

The Waffen-SS was grouped into divisions, as follows:

The differences to the normal army units were as follows:

After the end of the war, all troops were disbanded. In 1951, the Hilfsgemeinschaft auf Gegenseitigkeit der ehemaligen Angehörigen der Waffen-SS was founded, in Germany. This translates to "Mutual support organisation of former members of the Waffen-SS'. In English it is better known by HIAG. What they wanted is to have equal treatment of solders of the Waffen-SS, and soldiers of the Wehrmacht, the regular troops. They also publish a magazine. This (like most other such magazines), tries to convey the image that Waffen-SS troops were normal troops, after all. Sometimes, there are also revisionist articles in it.



</doc>
<doc id="43317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43317" title="Pizzicato">
Pizzicato

Pizzicato means: playing a string instrument by plucking the strings (pulling a string with the finger and letting go quickly). Instruments such as the violin, viola, cello and double bass are normally played with a bow, but if the composer wants the player to pluck instead of bow, the word “pizzicato” or just “pizz” is written in the music. When the player has to play with the bow again the word “arco” is written in the music (“arco” is the Italian word for “bow”).

When instruments of the violin family are played pizzicato the player usually plucks the string with the index finger (pointing finger) of the right hand somewhere over the fingerboard. Bassists typically use the index and middle finger. Sometimes the player may rest the thumb on the edge of the fingerboard to keep the hand steady. Sometimes more fingers can be used for particularly fast pizzicato sections. Cellists and double bass players can use the thumb for plucking, especially for playing chords.

It is also possible to play pizzicato with the left hand (the hand which is normally doing the fingering). It is not difficult to pluck an open string with the left hand. Stopped strings are harder, and the brilliant violinist and composer Niccolò Paganini wrote some virtuoso pieces with extremely difficult left hand pizzicato. 

Very occasionally violinists may be asked to pluck their instruments holding them down in their laps. This is normally when they are deliberately imitating a guitar.

Very often players have to change very quickly from bowing to plucking and back again. It is easy to play a bowed note and then immediately a plucked note if the bowed note finished near the heel of the bow (the end where the bow is held). If the bowed note finishes near the tip the player needs a moment to get the hand ready to pluck. It can take a little more time to go back to bowing again because the player has to get the bow back into playing position.

If there is a long pizzicato section then it is more comfortable to put the bow down instead of holding it in the right hand all the time. This is fine so long as the player has time to pick the bow up again when it goes back to arco.

Pizzicato notes sound short and detached (staccato). The player can get different sounds by plucking in different parts of the string. High notes sound very short and dry. Pizzicato notes on the double bass sound much more resonant (big and boomy). Double basses often play pizzicato to give extra rhythmic and harmonic support. For example: in a waltz the cellos and violas might be accompanying the tune with an “um-cha-cha, um-cha-cha” while the double basses just pluck on the “um” (the first beat of the bar). Double basses usually play pizzicato when playing with jazz groups.

One special effect can be made by pulling the string hard and letting it go so that it snaps against the fingerboard. Bartók used this effect several times. This is not the same as jazz bass players who slap the strings at the end of a note (“slap bass”).

In orchestras composers used pizzicato in the 17th century. Monteverdi used it in his opera "Il combattimento di Tancredi e Clorinda". In the 19th century the Romantic composers often asked for pizzicato. Tchaikovsky’s "Symphony no 4" has a whole scherzo movement for pizzicato strings. Johann Strauss wrote a "Pizzicato Polka" and in the 20th century Britten wrote a whole movement for pizzicato strings in his "Simple Symphony".


</doc>
<doc id="43318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43318" title="Category:Musical performance techniques">
Category:Musical performance techniques


</doc>
<doc id="43321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43321" title="Movement (music)">
Movement (music)

Long pieces of classical music are often divided into movements. They are like different sections of the piece. Movements can be quite short, or extremely long. If you listen to a symphony it may often be divided into four movements. In the time of Haydn and Mozart the four movements were normally: a fast movement, a slow movement, a dance-like movement (minuet) and a fast movement to end the work.

Concert programmes usually show how many movements there are in the work that is being performed. It may show this using Italian musical terms (e.g. "Allegro" meaning "fast", "Presto" meaning "very fast" or "Andante" meaning "a gentle walking pace"). Here is an example:

Robert Schumann: Symphony no 4 in D minor op.120

Sometimes an orchestra will take a minute or two to retune their instruments, especially in a symphony by Mahler or Shostakovich where one movement might be as long as 25 minutes. At other times the conductor or performer will want to go almost straight on with hardly any break. Sometimes the composer shows that there should be no break at all between movements.

Audiences in the olden days often used to clap between movements, but usually these days they wait until the end of the work to applaud.

The German word for “movement” (in this musical sense) is “Satz” which really means “sentence”. A movement is like a sentence: a collection of things that belong together to make sense. All the movements together are like several sentences: they tell the whole story.


</doc>
<doc id="43329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43329" title="Port Hedland, Western Australia">
Port Hedland, Western Australia

Port Hedland is a city on the north coast of Western Australia. 13,000 people live there and it is the largest city in the Pilbara Region. For its size it has a very large mineral port, because of one of the worlds biggest iron-deposit.


</doc>
<doc id="43331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43331" title="Category:Cities in Western Australia">
Category:Cities in Western Australia

Cities that are in Western Australia


</doc>
<doc id="43333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43333" title="Worms, Germany">
Worms, Germany

Worms (pronounced /voɐms/) is a town in southwestern Germany in the federal state of Rhineland-Palatinate (Rheinland-Pfalz). It lies on the River Rhine. Worms is famous for its local Liebfraumilch wine. It is an industrial center, producing chemicals and metal goods. At the end of 2004, it had 85,829 inhabitants.

Along with Cologne and Trier, Worms is one the oldest cities in Germany. But, there is a disagreement which of the three is actually the oldest. The town is mentioned in the "Nibelungenlied", an old Germanic saga. The town was also very important because of Martin Luther who defended his case against the emperor Charles V in Worms.

The Cathedral of Saint Peter is a very large church in the town. It is one of only three romanesque cathedrals in Germany. The other two are in Mainz and Speyer. The Worms cathedral is one of the most important romanesque buildings in Germany. 


</doc>
<doc id="43338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43338" title="Transistor">
Transistor

A transistor is an electronic component that can be used as an amplifier, or as a switch. They are found in most electronic devices. A transistor has three connectors or terminals: the collector, the emitter, and the base. The flow of current goes in the collector (since it collects), and out of the emitter (hence the word emit), depending on the current flowing to the base. In this way, it is possible for the base to switch on or off the flow through the transistor. The transistor can be used for a variety of different things including amplifiers and digital switches for computer microprocessors.

Transistors have almost totally replaced vacuum tubes in the majority of applications such as home audio equipment, and televisions.



</doc>
<doc id="43339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43339" title="Sex toy">
Sex toy

A Sex toy is a device that helps humans get more pleasure when they have sex or when they masturbate. Sometimes these devices are also called Adult toy, or Marital aid. "Marital aid" can also apply to certain herbs or drugs that have such an effect. Herbs with such an effect are called aphrodisiac. 


</doc>
<doc id="43344" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43344" title="Compsognathus">
Compsognathus

Compsognathus was a small carnivorous theropod dinosaur, from the end of the Jurassic period, 144 million years ago. It was about a metre long, and ran on two legs, using its long tail to keep its balance. It ate small animals. 

"Compsognathus" is known from two nearly complete specimens, one from Germany (89 cm 35 in long), and another from France (125 cm 49 in long).

The larger French specimen (MNHN CNJ 79) was discovered in 1972 in the Portland limestone, near Nice in southeastern France. Although Bidar originally described the specimen as a separate species called "Compsognathus corallestris", Michard and others have since relabeled it as another example of "Compsognathus longipes".

Thomas Henry Huxley ("Darwin's bulldog"), who was a comparative anatomist, made a study of it nearly 150 years ago. He compared the first fossil bird, "Archaeopteryx", with "Compsognathus". These two fossils were found in the same rocks: Solnhofen limestone in Bavaria, Germany. The strata come from the end of the Jurassic, about 144 million years ago. Huxley showed that the two were almost identical, except for the front limbs and feathers of "Archaeopteryx". He showed the basic affinity of birds and reptiles, which he united them under the title of "Sauropsida". Huxley concluded that birds evolved from small carnivorous dinosaurs.

"Comsognathus" was once thought to be the smallest dinosaur. However, if we assume the smaller specimen was a juvenile, then there are other slightly smaller species. The smallest dinosaur is probably "Anchiornis"; other candidates are: "Micropachycephalosaurus"; "Caenagnathasia"; "Microraptor"; and "Parvicursor".


</doc>
<doc id="43345" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43345" title="Micropachycephalosaurus">
Micropachycephalosaurus

Micropachycephalosaurus (meaning 'tiny thick headed lizard') is a genus of ornithischian dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous. It was a herbivore, and lived in what is now Shandong, China. It was one of the smallest dinosaur ever discovered, just over a meter long, but with the longest name. Before it was discovered "Compsognathus" was the smallest known dinosaur.

The lack of the skull roof means the fossil cannot be placed at family level. It might or might not be a pachycephalosaur. Butler and Zhao therefore classified it as an indeterminate member of the Cerapoda. In 2011, cladistic analysis performed by Butler "et al." showed that "Micropachycephalosaurus" is a basal member of the Ceratopsia. In this context, basal does not mean 'ancestral'; the fossil is far too late for that. It means simply 'unspecialized', or lacking derived traits.



</doc>
<doc id="43346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43346" title="Velociraptor">
Velociraptor

Velociraptor was a predatory dromaeosaur of the Upper Cretaceous, about 75–71 million years ago. 

It was a slender, lightly built carnivore. about two meters long (over six feet) and 0.62 meters tall at the hip, which is somewhat bigger than the size of a turkey. 

"Velociraptor" had one sickle-shaped claw on its foot which measured 6.5 centimeters along its length, and a smaller one on each hand. "Velociraptor" was warm blooded and had feathers. 

Fossils from China strongly suggest that the whole clade had similar traits. 

Fossils of "Velociraptor" were first found in the Gobi Desert of Mongolia in 1922. In 1988, scientists from China found "Velociraptor" skeletons in northern China. 

A famous "Velociraptor", discovered in 1971, was found attacking a "Protoceratops" in a fossil from Mongolia.

In September 2007, researchers found quill knobs on the forearm of a "Velociraptor" found in Mongolia. These bumps on bird wing bones show where feathers anchor, and their presence on "Velociraptor" indicate it too had feathers. 

Turner and colleagues interpreted the presence of feathers on "Velociraptor" as evidence that the ancestors of dromaeosaurids could fly, making "Velociraptor" and other large members of this family secondarily flightless. This idea has since been discarded; the unmodified forearms count against it. Therefore, the feathers in the ancestors of "Velociraptor" had another function. The feathers of the flightless "Velociraptor" may have been used for display, for covering their nests while brooding.

The majority view is that dinosaur feathers were primarily adaptations for temperature regulation, and that other uses came later. "Velociraptor" itself was too heavy to have flown.

Films such as "Jurassic Park" and some of the "The Land Before Time" films helped make "Velociraptor" popular. However, the raptors in Jurassic Park were far larger than the real thing. They were the size of "Utahraptor", a really large member of the same clade. The films probably also exaggerate its intelligence.



</doc>
<doc id="43347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43347" title="Rhea (moon)">
Rhea (moon)

Rhea is Saturn's second largest moon. It is made of ice and rock.

Rhea may have a thin ring system with three narrow bands in a disk of solid particles. These would be the first rings seen around a moon. The discovery was announced in the journal "Science" on March 6, 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="43348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43348" title="Mimas (moon)">
Mimas (moon)

Mimas (from the Greek "Μίμᾱς") is one of Saturn's largest moons. It is also called Saturn I. Mimas is best known for its large crater, Herschel. In the centre of the crater is a very high mountain. Mimas was discovered by the English astronomer William Herschel on September 17, 1789. The moon is believed to have created the Cassini Division. This is a 4,800 km gap between Saturn's A and B rings.


</doc>
<doc id="43349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349" title="Aphrodisiac">
Aphrodisiac

An aphrodisiac is a type of food or drink that has the effect of making those who eat or drink it more aroused in a sexual way. The name comes from the Greek goddess Aphrodite.

Some things thought by some to be aphrodisiacs are ginko, ashwaganda, oysters and chocolate.


</doc>
<doc id="43350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43350" title="Protoceratops">
Protoceratops

Protoceratops was a ceratopsian dinosaur from Mongolia. It was shown in a fossil being attacked by a "Velociraptor".


</doc>
<doc id="43355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43355" title="Megapnosaurus">
Megapnosaurus

Megapnosaurus was a small dinosaur from the early Jurassic. It was a relative of Coelophysis but it had two crests on top of its head. It is shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" attacking an Anchisaurus and getting scared off by a Dilophosaurus. It was called Syntarsus at that time.


</doc>
<doc id="43356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43356" title="Vidar">
Vidar

Vidar is a god in Norse mythology. He is the son of Odin and the giantess Grid. He is the god of the forest, of revenge and of silence. In Ragnarök, his father, Odin, will be killed by Fenrir. Vidar will take revenge, by killing Fenrir. He will either do this by stepping on his jaw and tearing the wolf apart, or by driving a sword through the heart of the wolf.


</doc>
<doc id="43357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43357" title="Anchisaurus">
Anchisaurus

Anchisaurus was a small sauropodmorph dinosaur from the early Jurassic. It was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" getting attacked by a pack of "Megapnosaurus" and eaten by a "Dilophosaurus".


</doc>
<doc id="43358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43358" title="Segisaurus">
Segisaurus

Segisaurus was a small dinosaur from the Triassic. It was a relative of Coelophysis.


</doc>
<doc id="43359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43359" title="Psittacosaurus">
Psittacosaurus

Psittacosaurus was a small ceratopsian dinosaur from the Early Cretaceous. Unlike other ceratopsians it had no horns or no frill. What made it a ceratopsian was its beak.


</doc>
<doc id="43360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43360" title="Zuniceratops">
Zuniceratops

Zuniceratops was a ceratopsian dinosaur. It grew up to 13 feet (or 4 meter long. His dinosaur family came from Asia.
His scientific name is "Zuniceratops christopheril", had 2 tons.


</doc>
<doc id="43361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43361" title="Quilmesaurus">
Quilmesaurus

Quilmesaurus was a predatory dinosaur from the Cretaceous period. It lived 95 million years ago.


</doc>
<doc id="43362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43362" title="Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich of Russia">
Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich of Russia

Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich Romanov of Russia was to be Tsar Alexei II. He would have been Tsar Alexei II.He was born on August 12, 1904 (jul. July 30, 1904) and probably died on July 17, 1918. He was the youngest of five children and the only son of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia and Alexandra Fyodorovna. His sisters were Olga, Tatiana, Maria, and Anastasia.

He had the disease hemophilia. He inherited the disease from his mother. The disease can be traced back to his great grandmother Queen Victoria. His father was gave up the throne in 1917 and his family was exiled and then murdered in Ekaterinburg in 1918. 

In 2008 his body was one of those found near the site where the family were murdered. DNA tests proved all 5 of the Tsar's children had been killed.

In 2000, Alexei and his family was made saints by the Russian Orthodox Church.
When Alexei was struggling with hemopilia, a Russian Orthodox monk named Grigori Rasputin commonly known as Rasputin, healed Alexei better than any doctor could. This might have led to the family's murder, because they were so fond of Rasputin. Once Rasputin was murdered, Alexei and his family were murdered only two years later.


</doc>
<doc id="43363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43363" title="Zalmoxes">
Zalmoxes

Zalmoxes was a dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous of Romania. It was a relative of the Iguanodon. 

Most of the skeleton is known with exception of the end of the tail, the hands and the feet.


</doc>
<doc id="43364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43364" title="Wikipedia:Spam">
Wikipedia:Spam

There are two basic types of spam; advertisements hidden as articles and robot-made external link spamming. Articles that are advertisements include those that are selling stuff for a business, product or service, or are public relations pieces designed to make a better company or individual. Wikispam articles are usually 
marked for deletion. However, a difference should be made between spam articles and good, information-filled articles about commercial businesses, websites, or anything like that.

Obvious examples of advertising can be by putting on the articles <nowiki></nowiki>. Other advertisements posted on Wikipedia can be dealt with by listing them on . Sometimes, the content can be removed just for a little while if there's a suspected , since the text is often copied from another website and posted.

When an article on an otherwise good for an encyclopedia topic has the tone of an advertisement, the article can often be saved by rewriting it in a .

A few groups now appear to have a spambot capable of spamming wikis from several different wiki engines. They know of a few hundred wikis. Typically, they insert external links. Like blog spam, their aim is to improve their search engine rankings, not to directly advertise their product. It can still be a nuisance (bother). Fortunately, a nofollow HTML tag is added to external links on all WMF projects. 

If you see a bot putting in external links, please consider checking the other language wikis to see if the attack is widespread. If it is, please tell a sysop on the ; they can put in a Wikimedia-wide text filter. Any meta sysop can edit the to add or remove the words that are recognized by the filter, with the changes taking effect immediately. New links can also be added to the list if a new spammer should start making them.

Sysops are allowed to and should uninvited on sight. Spam bots should be treated the same as vandalbots. Edits by spambots constitute unauthorised defacement of websites, which is against the law in many countries, and may result in complaints to ISPs and (ultimately) prosecution.


</doc>
<doc id="43365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43365" title="Oviraptor">
Oviraptor

Oviraptor is a genus of dinosaurs from what is today Mongolia. Oviraptor was a large-brained dinosaur which cared for its eggs. In 1924, an Oviraptor fossil was found on top of some eggs, and some thought that it had been eating the eggs. Others thought that the fossilized Oviraptor was probably a parent of the eggs in the nest, and not an egg stealer but a nurturer.

"Oviraptor" lived in the Upper Cretaceous period, about 75 million years ago. Only one definite specimen is known (with associated eggs), from Mongolia, though a possible second specimen (also with eggs) comes from the northeast region of Inner Mongolia, China.

"Oviraptor" is traditionally depicted with a distinctive crest, similar to that of the cassowary. However, re-examination of several oviraptorids show that this well-known, tall-crested species may actually belong to the genus "Citipati", a relative of "Oviraptor". It is likely that "Oviraptor" did have a crest, but its exact size and shape are unknown due to crushing in the skull of the only recognized specimen.

Judging by its relatives, "Oviraptor" probably had feathers. It had a toothless beak, but its feeding habits are unknown. One specimen has the remains of a lizard in its stomach cavity.

In 1976, Barsbold referred six additional specimens to the genus "Oviraptor", but these were later reclassified in the new genus "Conchoraptor". Another specimen, IGN 100/42, is perhaps the most famous, owing to its well-preserved complete skull and large size. This specimen was referred to the genus "Oviraptor" by Barsbold in 1981 and came to represent "Oviraptor" in most popular depictions and in scientific studies of oviraptorids. However, this specimen, with its distinctive tall, cassowary-like crest, was re-examined by the scientists who described the nesting oviraptorids, and found to resemble them more closely than the original specimens of "Oviraptor". For this reason, they removed IGN 100/42 from the genus "Oviraptor", provisionally re-classifying it as a species of "Citipati".


</doc>
<doc id="43366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43366" title="Oyster">
Oyster

Oyster is the name given to a few bivalves. All of them live in areas that are at least partly covered with water. Some of them are edible. All of them are filter-feeders. 


</doc>
<doc id="43369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43369" title="Category:Dolls">
Category:Dolls


</doc>
<doc id="43383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43383" title="Category:Liberia">
Category:Liberia


</doc>
<doc id="43387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43387" title="Category:1938 deaths">
Category:1938 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="43392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43392" title="Tumour">
Tumour

Tumour means swelling, but the word is sometimes used to mean tissue growth where it should not be growing. Tumours are either malignant (harmful) or benign (safe). 

The Tasmanian Devils in Tasmania, Australia are in danger of becoming extinct because of a malignant tumour that grows on their face.


</doc>
<doc id="43399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43399" title="99">
99





</doc>
<doc id="43401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43401" title="Sony Ericsson">
Sony Ericsson

Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB is a mobile phone manufacturer. The company is a joint venture that was established in 2001 by Japanese consumer electronics company Sony and the Swedish telecommunications company Ericsson. The two companies no longer make mobile phones independently.



</doc>
<doc id="43403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43403" title="Australian dollar">
Australian dollar

The Australian dollar (AUD) is the official currency of the Commonwealth of Australia. It has been in use since February 14, 1966. The Australian dollar is also used on Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Norfolk Island, and the independent Pacific Islands of Kiribati, Nauru and Tuvalu. In Australia the dollar symbol $ is usually used. The signs A$ or AU$ are often used to show that it is the Australian dollar. It is subdivided into 100 cents. 

In 2007 the Australian dollar was the sixth-most-traded currency in world. The most traded currencies were the Euro, US dollar, the yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc. 

The Australian dollar is liked by people who trade in currencies. This is because Australia has high interest rates and little government control on currency trading. Australia's economy and political systems are also seen to be stable.

The dollar was introduced on 14 February 1966, replacing the Australian pound.

From 1966, coins were made in amounts of 1, 2, 5, 10, 20 and 50 cents. One-dollar coins were made from 1984. Two-dollar coins were made from 1988. The one- and two-cent coins were not made after 1991 and are no longer used. Cash sales are made to the nearest five cents. All coins have the image of the head of state, Queen Elizabeth II on the back. They are made by the Royal Australian Mint in Canberra.

Australia has often made special 50-cent coins. The first was in 1970, to honor Captain Cook's finding the east coast of Australia. In 1977 a coin was made for Queen Elizabeth II's Silver Jubilee. In 1981 a coin was made for the wedding of Charles and Diana. The Brisbane Commonwealth Games had a special coin in 1982. Another one was made for the Australian Bicentenary in 1988. There have been many more special coins made since the 1990s. They are popular with people who collect coins. Australia has also made special 20-cent and one-dollar coins.

Australia has made special five-dollar coins, of aluminium/bronze and bi-metal, and many silver and gold bullion coins in bigger values. These are not normally used, although they are legal tender.

Current Australian 5-, 10- and 20-cent coins are the same size as the old Australian, New Zealand and British sixpenny, shilling and two shilling (florin) coins. In 1990. the UK replaced these coins with smaller versions, as did New Zealand in 2006 - at the same time discontinuing the five-cent coin. The Australian 50-cent coin is a large coin. It weighs 15.55 grams and is 31.51 mm across.

The first paper banknotes in Australian dollars were printed in 1966. The one, two, ten and 20-dollars notes matched the old pound banknotes. The five-dollar note was printed in 1967, after the public were used to decimal currency. 

The one-dollar note was replaced by a coin in 1984. The two-dollar note was replaced by a coin in 1988. The 50-dollar note was first printed in 1973. In 1984 Australia printed the 100-dollar note.

Notes are different sizes depending on their value. This is to help people are visually impaired (unable to see properly). They are the same height but different lengths. The $5 is the smallest, $100 the largest. Notes are also colour coded: $5 pink (there are two designs); $10 blue; $20 red; $50 yellow; and $100 green.

In 1988, the Reserve Bank of Australia gave out plastic, (polypropylene) polymer banknotes (produced by Note Printing Australia), to celebrate 200 years of European settlement in Australia. All Australian notes are now made of polymer.
To make it hard to copy these notes, they have see through windows with a picture image of Captain James Cook. Every note also has a seven-pointed star which has only half the printing on each side. Australian banknotes were the first in the world to use such features.


</doc>
<doc id="43405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43405" title="Washing machine">
Washing machine

A washing machine is a machine designed to wash dirty clothes.
Washing machines contain "drums" into which the clothes are placed; this drum is filled with water, and then rotated fast to make the water remove dirt from the clothes.
Most washing machines are made so that you can put liquids or powders into the machine that will help make the clothes cleaner. 


</doc>
<doc id="43406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43406" title="Benign">
Benign

The word benign is often used to refer to a medical condition that will not become life-threatening if it is not treated, but can also mean that something is not harmful. It is often used in relation to tumours that do not metastasise to other parts of the body. Tumours that are referred to as being benign may still be life-threatening because of other reasons. Because of this, the term applies mainly to their biological behaviour.

Tumors that are benign may be at risk of changing into malignancy. These are termed "premalignant".


</doc>
<doc id="43411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43411" title="Frankfurt U-Bahn">
Frankfurt U-Bahn

"The Frankfurt U-Bahn" is an underground railway network in the city of Frankfurt, Germany. It is run by the "Verkehrsgesellschaft Frankfurt", short VGF. It has 7 lines and a network of 60 kilometers (40 miles) and has exactly 85 stations, apart 27 underground and 58 above ground. Two lines, the U2 and the U3 crosses the city border in Oberursel and Bad Homburg.


</doc>
<doc id="43412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43412" title="Geraldton, Western Australia">
Geraldton, Western Australia

Geraldton is a city and port in Western Australia 424 km north of Perth. 29,996, people live there, what makes it the fifth-largest city in Western Australia.

Today the city is an important for mining, fishing, wheat, sheep and tourism.


</doc>
<doc id="43424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43424" title="Frankfurt Airport">
Frankfurt Airport

The Frankfurt International Airport ("in German": Rhein-Main-Flughafen) is the biggest airport in Germany and the third largest in Europe (in terms of Passenger, in Cargo second largest), it is located in Frankfurt, Hessen.

In 2005, 52 million passengers flew from Frankfurt and 1.89 million tonnes of cargo.

The airport has two train stations, the terminal for the commuter trains is under the terminal and the station for the long-distance trains is five minutes to walk.


</doc>
<doc id="43428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43428" title="Marki">
Marki

Marki is a town near Warsaw, in Poland. About 23,300 people live there.


</doc>
<doc id="43435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43435" title="William Harvey">
William Harvey

William Harvey was an English medical doctor. He was born in Folkstone, Kent, England on April 1, 1573. He was the first to explain how blood was moved through the body by the heart. He died June 3, 1657.

William Harvey is famous for his idea on blood being pumped around the body by the heart. Christianismi Restitutio had found out how the circulatory system worked, but his work at the time was lost. Harvey found Restitutio's work a century later. Harvey travelled all over Europe doing research. Most of his research was done in Italy where he went to the Venerable English College in Rome.

A hospital in Ashford, Kent is named after him. He went to The King's School, Canterbury, then Ganville and Caius College, Cambridge. He then went to University of Padua where he graduated in 1602.

When he returned to England he married Elizabeth Browne, the daughter of Elizabeth I's royal physician. He became a doctor at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in London from 1609 until 1643.

Harvey announced his discoveries about the circulatory system in 1616. He wrote a book ("Exercitatio Anatomica de Motu Cordis et sanguinis in Animalibuson") about it in 1628. He said that blood was pumped around the body in a closed system. Blood was pumped by the heart through the body before coming back to the heart to repeat the process. This went against what was believed at the time to be true. William Harvey was an English physician who was the first to describe correctly and in detail the circulation and properties

The ancient Greek doctor, Galen believed that there were two systems in the body dealing with blood. It was thought at the time that the dark red blood in veins came from the liver and the bright red blood in arteries came from the heart. It was believed that the liver and heart made the blood and it was used up by the body parts it was pumped to.

Harvey's ideas came from dissecting human bodies. Harvey found that the liver would have to make 540 pounds of blood every hour for Galen to be right. This showed him that the blood was not being used up. It was being reused by the body. He said blood flowed through the heart in two loops. One loop went to the lungs and got oxygen. The other loop went to the organs and body tissue giving them the oxygen. He said the heart was just a pump that pumped blood around the body.



</doc>
<doc id="43437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43437" title="Zoey 101">
Zoey 101

Zoey 101 is a television series on Nickelodeon about teenagers in a boarding school. It stars Jamie Lynn Spears as Zoey.


Zoey Brooks goes to a once all-boys boarding school in California, where she must fit in, even though she is a girl. The show focuses on normal problems that a teenage girl may have to deal with.


</doc>
<doc id="43441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43441" title="Velocisaurus">
Velocisaurus

The Velocisaurus was a dinosaur related to Ceratosaurus. It was a fast runner.


</doc>
<doc id="43442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43442" title="Valdosaurus">
Valdosaurus

Valdosaurus ("Weald Lizard") is a genus of bipedal herbivorous dinosaurs found on the Isle of Wight and elsewhere in England. It is found in the Lower Cretaceous.

Its classification is in the Dryosauridae family. It is related to the Iguanodonts.


</doc>
<doc id="43443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43443" title="Great Famine">
Great Famine

The Great Famine or the Great Hunger (Irish: An Gorta Mór or An Drochshaol) is the name given to the famine in Ireland between 1845 and 1849. Outside of Ireland, It is usually called the Irish Potato Famine. The Famine was caused by "the Blight". The Blight was a potato fungus that destroyed all the potatoes in Ireland very fast. Potatoes were the main source of food for most of the people in Ireland at the time. The effects of The Famine lasted until 1851. Not much is known about what happened during this time. It is believed that between 500,000 and more than one million people died in the three years from 1846 to 1849 because of hunger or disease. Another million became refugees because of the Famine. They left Ireland and moved to Great Britain, the United States, Canada, and Australia.

In Ireland this time is referred to as the Starvation. The potato was the only crop affected, yet Ireland continued to produce corn, wheat, barley and beef. However the English landlords made a bigger profit by shipping these food products out of the country. Writer Chris Fogarty, places the numbers “murdered at approximately 5.16 million, making it the Irish holocaust.” Distinguished legal scholars, like Professors Charles Rice of Notre Dame U. and Francis A. Boyle, U. of Illinois, believe that under International Law, that the British pursued a barbarous policy of mass starvation in Ireland from 1845-50, and that such conduct constituted “genocide.”


</doc>
<doc id="43444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43444" title="Wannanosaurus">
Wannanosaurus

Wannanosaurus is the smallest known ornithischian dinosaur. Its length is estimated at just less than a metre. It lived in the Upper Cretaceous, about 80 million years ago, and was found in Anhui, China. 

It is known from a single partial skeleton, including a partial skull roof and lower jaw, an upper leg and lower leg, part of a rib, and other fragments. It was herbivorous, but may also have eaten insects. Wannosaurus means Wanno lizard. It is one of several pachycephalosaurs with flat-topped skulls.


</doc>
<doc id="43445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43445" title="Chihuahua (dog)">
Chihuahua (dog)

A chihuahua is a very small kind of dog and is bred to be spoiled. 

They can a height of 5 to 8 inches (12.7–20.3 cm) and a weight of 2–6 pounds (0.9–2.7 kg), that are so small but so cute.

Dogs can come in different colors. Black, white, and brown. Patterns include Sable, Irish spotting, Piebald spotting, extreme white spotting and tan points. Colors and patterns can mix during mating, creating much difference.

The Chihuahua's start goes back to Pre-Columbian Mexico as the descendants of the Techichi, a long haired and silent dog. The Techichi was liked by the Toltec people. Toltecs made their most important city in Tula, in the Mesa Central Region. They also built the city of Teotihuacan near today's Mexico City. Chihuahuas are believed to mate with Techichi and Chinese Crested dogs (tiny and hairless) to form today's Chihuahuas. Another reason why this would have happened is that Techichis mated with with Spanish terriers, which were well liked at the time and were known for their small body and black and tan colors. Mating with another species of dog increased the Techichi's bark while lowering its size. Chihuahuas were named after the Chihuahua state in Mexico, which is the place where the dog became known for its popularity in the United States. The name Chihuahua has nothing to do with the dog, but the word Chihuahua comes from the Na'huatl word "xicuagua", which means "sandy, dry place".


</doc>
<doc id="43446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43446" title="Minmi">
Minmi

Minmi is a genus of small ankylosaurian dinosaur that lived during the Lower Cretaceous of Australia, about 119 to 113 million years ago. 

A recent cladistic analysis suggests that "Minmi" is the most basal known ankylosaur.
That does not mean it was the ancestor of the group; it is far too late for that. It means its body is not specialized, and is relatively unchanged from whatever was the ancestral group.

Two good specimens of "Minmi" have been described, including a mostly complete skeleton, and additional fragments may belong to this genus. The dinosaur grew to about 2 m (6.5 ft) long, and was roughly 1 m (3 ft) tall to the top of the shoulder.

"Minmi" is classified in the Ankylosauria, but is too 'primitive' (basal) to be included in either the Ankylosauridae or Nodosauridae. 

As with other ankylosaurians, "Minmi" was herbivorous Unlike most herbivorous dinosaurs, there is direct evidence of the diet of "Minmi": gut contents are known from the well-preserved nearly complete specimen. The gut contents consist of fragments of fibrous or vascular plant tissue, fruiting bodies, spherical seeds, and tissue (possibly from fern sporangia). The most common remains are the fibrous or vascular fragments, which have clean cut ends. 

Because of the small size of the fragments, they are probably nibbled from plants or chopped in the mouth. These small fragments may have come from twigs or stems, but their size is more suggestive of vascular bundles in leaves. The clean cuts, and lack of gastroliths, suggest that the animal relied on chewing to grind food. The seeds (0.3 mm [0.01 in] across) and fruiting bodies (4.5 mm [0.18 in] across) were apparently swallowed whole. When compared to to gut contents and scat from modern herbivorous lizard, emu and goose, this shows "Minmi" had a more sophisticated process for cutting up plant material.

It had bony protrusions on its head, back, abdomen, legs and along the tail. Several types of armour are known in place in "Minmi", including small ossicles, small keeled scutes on the body, large scutes without keels on the snout, large keeled scutes on the neck, shoulders, and possibly tail, spike-like scutes on the hips, and a combination of ridged and keeled scutes and triangular plates on the tail. There was one preserved ring of scutes around the neck. The arrangement of armour is unclear on the tail, although the triangular plates may have run on the sides of the tail, with long scutes forming a row along the top of the tail. However, unlike other ankylosaurians, "Minmi" had horizontal plates of bones that ran along the sides of its vertebrae (hence its species name, "M. paravertebra").


</doc>
<doc id="43447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43447" title="Rugops">
Rugops

Rugops was a dinosaur related to "Carnotaurus". It lived in what is now Africa, about 95 million years ago. It was a medium-sized carnivorous dinosaur, up to 27 feet long. 

"Rugops" lived at the same time "Spinosaurus", "Carcharodontosaurus", and "Deltadromeus", in the Upper Cretaceous. 

"Rugops" was a carnivore, with weak jaws and small teeth. It may have been a scavenger, feeding on dead animals. It also may have preyed on sauropods, such as "Paralititan" and "Aegyptosaurus", and ornithopods, such as "Ouranosaurus". The name "Rugops" means "wrinkled face." The bony wrinkles on its snout may have helped to support a structure, such as horny crest or a wattle, like on a rooster or a turkey. 


</doc>
<doc id="43449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43449" title="Abrictosaurus">
Abrictosaurus

Abrictosaurus was a heterodontosaurid dinosaur from the Lower Jurassic of what is now southern Africa. It was a small bipedal herbivore or omnivore, about 1.2 meters (4 feet) long, and weighing less than 45 kilograms (100 pounds).

"Abrictosaurus" is usually considered the most basal member of the family Heterodontosauridae. "Lycorhinus" and "Heterodontosaurus" both had high-crowned cheek teeth, which overlapped each other in the jaw, forming a continuous chewing surface analogous to those of Cretaceous hadrosaurids. "Abrictosaurus" had more widely-separated cheek teeth, with lower crowns, more similar to other early ornithischians. 

The family as a whole has canine-like tusks. Tusks were clearly present on one of the two specimens of "Abrictosaurus". The upper caniniform measured 10.5 millimeters (0.4 inches) high, while the lower reached 17 mm (0.67 in). 

"Abrictosaurus" had smaller, less powerful forelimbs than "Heterodontosaurus" and one fewer phalanx bone (finger joint) in both the fourth and fifth digits of the forelimb.


</doc>
<doc id="43450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43450" title="Heterodontosaurus">
Heterodontosaurus

Heterodontosaurus (meaning "different toothed lizard") is a genus of small herbivorous dinosaur with prominent canine teeth which lived in the Lower Jurassic of South Africa. It was related to "Abrictosaurus". It had 3 different kinds of teeth.


</doc>
<doc id="43451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43451" title="Camarasaurus">
Camarasaurus

Camarasaurus (ca-mara-sawr-us) (meaning "chambered lizard") was a large plant-eating dinosaur. It was about 18 meters long and weighed about 18 metric tones. Its name comes from its skull, which is in the shape of an arch. It lived during the late Jurassic Period between 155 and 145 million years ago. These dinosaurs may have lived in herds.

It was first discovered in 1877 in Colorado by Oramel W. Lucas. Its bones have also been discovered in New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming.

There are four species of Camarasaurus:

It was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America". A toy company named Ugobe makes toy robots that are like Camarasaurus.



</doc>
<doc id="43452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43452" title="Zizhongosaurus">
Zizhongosaurus

Zizhongosaurus was a very large plant-eating dinosaur. It was a large sauropod. It was related to Camarasaurus.



</doc>
<doc id="43454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43454" title="Belching">
Belching

Belching is the act of making a burp. It is letting air out of the stomach through the mouth. Burping is caused by air being trapped in the stomach. "Esophageal speech" is the act of "burping" words.


</doc>
<doc id="43473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43473" title="Great Fire of London">
Great Fire of London

The Great Fire Of London was a tragedy that happened in London, England in 1666. The fire lasted for four days, from September 2 until September 5.

It threatened the aristocratic district of Westminster (the modern West End), Charles II's Palace of Whitehall, and most of the suburban slums. However, it did not reach these districts. It burned down 13,200 houses, 87 churches, St. Paul's Cathedral, and most of the government buildings. It is believed that it destroyed the homes of 70,000 of the 80,000 people that lived in the city. It is not known how many people died in the fire. Only a few deaths are certain, but for many of the victims there were no records. Also, the fire may have cremated many, leaving no recognisable remains. 

The fire started at the bakery of Thomas Farriner (or Farynor) in Pudding Lane. It began just after midnight on Sunday, September 2 and grew very fast. Firefighters of the time usually made firebreaks by destroying buildings around the fire so it could not spread. This did not happen soon enough because the Lord Mayor, Sir Thomas Bloodworth, was not certain what to do. By the time he ordered such measures, it was too late.

The fire pushed north on Monday into the center of the city. Some people thought that foreigners were setting the fires. They believed it was the French and Dutch. Both countries were England's enemies in the Second Anglo-Dutch War, a war that was happening at that time. On Thursday, the fire spread over most of the City, destroying St. Paul's Cathedral and crossed over the River Fleet. It was close to setting fire to Charles II's court at Whitehall. 

The attempt to put out the fire is believed to have been successful because of two things:

The social and economic problems created by the disaster were very big. Leaving London to go and live elsewhere was strongly encouraged by Charles II. He feared a London rebellion amongst the refugees who had lost their property. Despite numerous radical proposals, London was reconstructed on essentially the same street plan used before the fire.

The fire is said to have also helped to get rid of the Great Plague which had hit London in 1665, and killed about 70,000 of the 90,000 population.




</doc>
<doc id="43482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43482" title="Golgi complex">
Golgi complex

The Golgi complex, also known as the Golgi apparatus or simply the Golgi, is a cytoplasmic organelle. It is found in eukaryote cells, such as those of animals, plant, and fungi. It was discovered by Camillo Golgi in 1898. Golgi was ignored and his discovery was said to be dirt on his lenses. Years later, electron microscope pictures showed structures just like in the original Golgi drawings. It is made of several flattened sac-like membranes which some people say look like a stack of pancakes.
The main function of the Golgi apparatus is to process and package macromolecules, such as proteins and lipids. They come to the Golgi after being built, and before they go to their destination. The Golgi complex inspects them for flaws and discards extra material added during their manufacture, wraps them up and then targets them for packaging. The Golgi complex is especially active in processing proteins for secretion. The Golgi releases special enzymes called lysosomes, which clean off any extra amino acids. When the package is ready, it is pinched off the Golgi and released into the cytoplasm. The Golgi complex is part of the cellular membrane system along with the endoplasmic reticulum. The Golgi apparatus is known as the powerhouse of the cell.


</doc>
<doc id="43486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43486" title="Institut Teknologi Bandung">
Institut Teknologi Bandung

Institut Teknologi Bandung (ITB) is a public government-funded, higher education, technology school located in Bandung, West Java, Indonesia. 

The symbol of Institut Teknologi Bandung is Ganesha, a Hindu god representing wisdom. 



</doc>
<doc id="43488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43488" title="Superconductor">
Superconductor

A superconductor is a special type of material that conducts electricity without resistance. That means that electrons (tiny particles with negative charge) can flow very easily through the material. This can be achieved only at very low temperatures. The temperature at which a material becomes superconducting varies from material to material. Not all materials are superconductors. 
Another property of superconductors is the Flux Trapping Effect, which can cause a rare earth magnet to float above a cooled superconductor.


</doc>
<doc id="43495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43495" title="Category:Rome">
Category:Rome


</doc>
<doc id="43497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43497" title="Category:Ontario">
Category:Ontario


</doc>
<doc id="43508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43508" title="Alan Freeman">
Alan Freeman

Alan Leslie "Fluff" Freeman (born 6 July 1927 in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, died 27 November 2006 in London, England) was an Australian radio presenter who worked for most of his career in the United Kingdom.

In May 2000 he was presented with a Lifetime Achievement award at the Sony Radio Academy Awards.
Freeman was best known for presenting "Pick of the Pops" on BBC Radio 1 throughout the 1960s and 1970s. 


</doc>
<doc id="43519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43519" title="Sunflower">
Sunflower

The sunflower ("Helianthus annuus") is an annual plant in the family Asteraceae, with a large flower head (inflorescence). The stem of the flower can grow up to 3 metres tall, with a flower head that can be 30 cm wide.

Birds and other animals enjoy eating sunflower seeds. Humans like to eat them too, although not all kinds, and often they are covered with chocolate, salt, or honey. Other types of sunflowers include the California Royal Sunflower, which has a burgundy (red + purple) flower head.

The sunflower is the state flower of Kansas. That is why Kansas is sometimes called the Sunflower State.
To grow well, sunflowers need full sun. They grow best in fertile, wet, well-drained soil with a lot of mulch. In commercial planting, seeds are planted 45 cm (1.5 ft) apart and 2.5 cm (1 in) deep. Sunflower "whole seed" (fruit) are sold as a snack food, after roasting in ovens, with or without salt added. Sunflowers can be processed into a peanut butter alternative, Sunbutter. In Germany, it is mixed together with rye flour to make Sonnenblumenkernbrot (literally: sunflower whole seed bread), which is quite popular in German-speaking Europe. It is also sold as food for birds and can be used directly in cooking and salads.
Sunflower oil, extracted from the seeds, is used for cooking, as a carrier oil and to produce margarine and biodiesel, as it is cheaper than olive oil. A range of sunflower varieties exist with differing fatty acid compositions; some 'high oleic' types contain a higher level of healthy monounsaturated fats in their oil than Olive oil.

The cake remaining after the seeds have been processed for oil is used as a livestock feed. Some recently developed cultivars have drooping heads. These cultivars are less attractive to gardeners growing the flowers as ornamental plants, but appeal to farmers, because they reduce bird damage and losses from some plant diseases. Sunflowers also produce latex and are the subject of experiments to improve their suitability as an alternative crop for producing hypoallergenic rubber.
Traditionally, several Native American groups planted sunflowers on the north edges of their gardens as a "fourth sister" to the better known three sisters combination of corn, beans, and squash.[9] Annual species are often planted for their allelopathic properties.[citation needed]
However, for commercial farmers growing commodity crops, the sunflower, like any other unwanted plant, is often considered a weed. Especially in the midwestern USA, wild (perennial) species are often found in corn and soybean fields and can have a negative impact on yields.
Sunflowers may also be used to extract toxic ingredients from soil, such as lead, arsenic and uranium. They were used to remove uranium, cesium-137, and strontium-90 from soil after the Chernobyl disaster (see phytoremediation).


</doc>
<doc id="43528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43528" title="Peter Cushing">
Peter Cushing

Peter Cushing (May 26, 1913 – August 11, 1994) was an English actor. He is best known for his roles in horror films and by
Born Peter Wilton Cushing in Surrey, England. His film career began in 1939 in a small role in "The Man in the Iron Mask" (1939), followed by "Laddie" (1940). He interpreted the role of Osric, in the classic written by William Shakespeare, "Hamlet" (1948), with Laurence Olivier.

His best roles he played in his career were the Victor Frankenstein, in the british horror film "The Curse of Frankenstein" (1957), by Terence Fisher he plays of role brilliantly, Victor creates a monster in the attic of his castle. His other role was that of Doctor Van Helsing in "Dracula" (1958), in this film he must fight Dracula. In these two films he was accompanied by another great actor Christopher Lee. They formed a very successful duo, starring in dozens of Hammer films as "The Hound of the Baskervilles" (1959), "The Mummy" (1959), "The Gorgon" (1964), "Dr. Terror's House of Horrors" (1965). They clashed again as Van Helsing and Dracula, in "Dracula A.D. 1972" (1972), and "The Satanic Rites of Dracula" (1974).

Also re-interpret the character of Baron Frankenstein, in "The Revenge of Frankenstein" (1958), "The Evil of Frankenstein" (1964), by Freddie Francis, "Frankenstein Created Woman" (1967), "Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed" (1969), and "Frankenstein and the Monster from Hell" (1974), directed by Terence Fisher.

Peter Cushing also teamed with Vincent Price in films including "Scream and Scream Again" (1970), "Dr. Phibes Rises Again" (1972), "Madhouse" (1974), which plays an evil agent film., and "House of the Long Shadows" (1983). 
In 1977 he obtained the role of Grand Moff Tarkin, in "Star Wars" by George Lucas. 

In the last years of his career had appearances in some comedies "Top Secret!" (1984). 

His last job was in 1986 in the film "Biggles" (1986).

Cushing also made ​televison, in mystery series, including "Sherlock Holmes" (1968), as Sherlock Holmes, "The Avengers", "Great Mysteries", "Space: 1999", "The New Avengers", "Hammer House of Horror", and the TV films "The Masks of Death" (1984), as Sherlock Holmes

! Year
! Títle
! Role
! class="unsortable" | Note



</doc>
<doc id="43533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43533" title="Brian Krause">
Brian Krause

Brian Krause (born February 1 1969) is an American actor who grew up in El Toro, California. He is best known for his role as Leo Wyatt on the WB Network television series "Charmed" from 1998 to 2006.

Krause made his first movie as Richard Lestrange in the movie sequel "Return to the Blue Lagoon" (1991). A year later, he also starred opposite Alice Krige, playing Charles Brady in the horror movie "Sleepwalkers".

Brian and his wife Beth Bruce had their first child, Jamen, in 1996, but were later divorced in 2000. He dated co-star Alyssa Milano and is currently dating an unknown woman in the United States. During his time off the set, he enjoys being a handyman which was his job before acting (and was his fake job when he played Leo Wyatt on "Charmed"). He also enjoys golf and auto racing.


</doc>
<doc id="43534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43534" title="Julian McMahon">
Julian McMahon

Julian McMahon (born July 27, 1968, in Sydney, Australia) is an Australian actor and former model. His father, Sir William McMahon was Prime Minister of Australia from 1971-1972. McMahon is best known for playing Cole Turner on the television series "Charmed" and Christian Troy on the series "Nip/Tuck".


</doc>
<doc id="43535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43535" title="Ted King">
Ted King

Theodore William King is an American actor. He was born October 1, 1965 in Hollywood, California. Ted King is also credited as T.W. King.

He is first known to soap opera fans as Danny Roberts on Loving in 1995 and The City until the show was went off the air in March 1997. He had the starring role in the series "Timecop" on ABC in the fall of 1997. He was on the series Charmed as Inspector Andy Trudeau from 1998 to 1999. In 2002, King returned to soaps as Luis Alcazar on General Hospital for a few months until his character was killed on the show. In 2003, he returned to General Hospital as Luis' twin brother, Lorenzo Alcazar.


</doc>
<doc id="43537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43537" title="Coffs Harbour, New South Wales">
Coffs Harbour, New South Wales

Coffs Harbour is a city on the north coast of New South Wales, Australia. It is 540km north of Sydney and 440km south of Brisbane. Coffs Harbour is famous for its bananas and is also an important diving spot. It also has a campus of the Southern Cross University.


</doc>
<doc id="43560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43560" title="Yggdrasil">
Yggdrasil

Yggdrasil is the name of the tree that links different worlds of Norse mythology. The tree is an ash. It links Niflheim and Asgard, amongst others.


</doc>
<doc id="43562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43562" title="Impeachment">
Impeachment

Impeachment is a way to remove government officials from office in some countries. It happens when the official does not want to leave his or her job. It is like an indictment (something that the prosecutor needs to get before the trial). After somebody gets impeached, a legislature votes on whether or not to convict, or find him or her guilty. The second legislature is sometimes made up of the same people that impeached him, and sometimes it is not.


</doc>
<doc id="43563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43563" title="Indictment">
Indictment

In common law, an indictment is a charge saying that a person committed a very serious crime. They used to be given out by grand juries (a special jury usually made up of 24 people that is used to see if a person should be charged}, but many places do not have grand juries anymore. Sealed indictments are kept secret until they are unsealed. 


</doc>
<doc id="43564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43564" title="Trial">
Trial

A trial is where 2 groups of people argue in a court.

In a civil trial, there is a plaintiff and a defendant. The plaintiff tries to prove that the defendant should give him money.

In a criminal trial, there's a prosecutor and a defendant. The prosecutor works for the government and tries to prove that the defendant committed a crime. It often takes a long time to get a trial scheduled as the courts can be very busy. Federal court can take up to 10 months to get a court date. Big court cases can take up to a few years as the two sides gather information and put together their cases. 

The judge contols the courtroom. They decide who speaks when, and they decide what evidence and arguments can be used. Sometimes a jury in brought in to determine whether the defendant is guilty or not guilty. If there is no jury, the judge decides whether the defendent has been proven guilty or not. If the defendent has been proven guilty of the crime, the judge will decide the punishment, which is also called the sentence. If the crime is serious, the defendant may go to prison or, in some countries, be executed. For smaller crimes, there is often a fine - money must be paid, in addition to having a criminal record. 


</doc>
<doc id="43576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43576" title="Belinda (entertainer)">
Belinda (entertainer)

Belinda Peregrin Schull (born Madrid, Spain August 15, 1989) is a Mexican/French/Spanish singer and actress. She has most recently starred in Disney Channel's movie "". She sang "A La Nanita Nana" and "Why Wait" in the movie. For a music video, she has sang "Dance With Me" with Drew Seeley.She has had a new disc called UTOPIA and her song NI FRAUD NI TU MAMA.She has starred since she was a little girllike 6 or 5 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="43578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43578" title="Ngo Dinh Diem">
Ngo Dinh Diem

Ngo Dinh Diem or "Ngô Ðình Diệm" in Vietnamese was the first President of South Vietnam. He was born on 3 January 1901 in Hue, Vietnam

He was overthrown and killed on 2 November 1963 by the South Việtnamese army, which then set up a military dictatorship.



</doc>
<doc id="43579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43579" title="Category:1840 deaths">
Category:1840 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="43585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43585" title="Great Plague of London">
Great Plague of London

The Great Plague of London was when the disease called the bubonic plague hit London in 1665-1666, killing many people. It was supposed to have originated in the Far East. One of the reasons the disease stopped killing people was because of the Great Fire of London in 1666. It had a major effect on England where it killed 40% of the population. In comparison the First World War killed 1% of the population and the Second World War killed 2% of the population.


</doc>
<doc id="43586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43586" title="Empress Matilda">
Empress Matilda

Empress Matilda (c. February 1101–10 September 1167), sometimes called Empress Maud, was the second child of Henry I of England and Matilda of Scotland. She was Queen of England for a short time in 1141. She fought against King Stephen who was the nephew of Henry I. Their argument ended when Matilda's son, Henry, was named by King Stephen as his successor at the treaty of Wallingford in 1153. This happened because Stephen's own chosen successor, his son Eustace, died in 1153.


</doc>
<doc id="43588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43588" title="Category:1101 births">
Category:1101 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1101.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="43589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43589" title="Template:English monarchs">
Template:English monarchs

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="43597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43597" title="Kaiser">
Kaiser

Kaiser was title used for the Emperor of Germany from the creation of unified Germany in 1871 until the end of World War I. The word "Kaiser" is the German word for Caesar, the name the ancient Romans used for their emperor.


</doc>
<doc id="43621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43621" title="Orange, New South Wales">
Orange, New South Wales

Orange is a city in New South Wales, Australia. It is on the Mitchell Highway about 250 kilometres west of Sydney. The main street (where people do all the shopping) is quite large for a country town. There are four high schools and five primary schools in Orange. Orange has two tennis centres, a big pool, an indoor sports centre, a netball centre, football pitches, hockey pitches and lots of parks.


</doc>
<doc id="43624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43624" title="Template:For">
Template:For


</doc>
<doc id="43627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43627" title="Endometrium">
Endometrium

The endometrium is the inner membrane of the uterus in mammals. During pregnancy, the endometrium develops a lot of glands and blood vessels. These all become interconnected and form a placenta when a fertilised ovum attaches itself to the uterus.


</doc>
<doc id="43632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43632" title="Nibelungenlied">
Nibelungenlied

The Nibelungenlied, translated as The Song of the Nibelungs, is an epic poem in Middle High German. It tells the story of dragon-slayer Siegfried at the court of the Burgundians, and of the revenge of his wife Kriemhild, which leads to the death all the heroes of the Bugundians and of Kriemhild as well.

The saga of Siegfried was also used in the opera cycle "Der Ring des Nibelungen" of Richard Wagner. Nibelung in this context means "dwarf".

The Nibelungenlied is based on earlier works. It was part of oral tradition, meaning it usually was not written down. During the Middle Ages people started to write down stories more and more. Overall there are about 35 German sources and one Dutch source for the story. There was an original manuscript but it has been lost. The three oldest manuscripts have been labelled "A", "B", and "C". 


"B" seems to be closest to the original; however, the real relation between the three manuscripts is unknown. The Nibelungenlied probably had a broad oral tradition, as there were many different versions. It is difficult to judge how these oral versions influenced the written ones.

Manuscripts A and B end with "daz ist der Nibelunge not" (that is the fall of the Nibelungs"); for this reasons, they are known as the "Not versions". Manuscript C ends with "daz ist der Nibelunge liet" (). It is known as the "Lied-version". In total, the C text has been edited with regard to the public of the time. It is less dramatic. This probably made it more popular. Aesthetically, the B text would have been the greatest artistic achievement for a contemporary public.

The author who wrote down the original that is now lost is unknown. However, there are a few candidates:
Serious researchers tend to ignore the last three options, because there is not enough evidence to support them.

This was probably not in the original though, but added later. The original probably began by introducing Kriemhild:

English translations:


</doc>
<doc id="43633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43633" title="Dwarf">
Dwarf

A dwarf is a short, humanlike creature in Norse mythology as well as other Germanic mythologies, fairy tales, fantasy, fiction and role-playing games. 

In some stories, dwarves are mean, living under bridges, and having a bad reputation for stealing treasure. One example is the Norwegian Troll. It is an ugly and foolish creature who tells lies. It causes problems everywhere it goes. That is how the Internet troll got its name. In Robert Louis Stevenson's story, "Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," Edward Hyde is described as "a dwarf."

On the other hand, J. R. R. Tolkien's hobbits and the munchkins in The Wizard of Oz are likeable, honest, good and smart. 

A dwarf can also be a short human. Often "dwarf" is used as an insult for short people, but some people have a genetic condition which was called dwarfism. Not all short people have this condition.




</doc>
<doc id="43642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43642" title="Vanir">
Vanir

The Vanir is one of the two kinds of deities in Norse mythology. The others are the Æsir. The Vanir are peace-loving gods, related to Elves ; while Æsir are warlike gods, related to Giants. Important members of the Vanir include:

They live in Asgard together with the Æsir as a token of goodwill following a peace treaty. Others live in Vanaheimr. The goddess Freyja receives half of the slain heroes as a share of power between the two clans.


</doc>
<doc id="43646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43646" title="Mole (unit)">
Mole (unit)

Mole is the SI unit of measurement used to measure the number of things, usually atoms or molecules. One mole of something is equal to 6.0221415×10²³ of it. So, "One mole of hydrogen atoms" means 6.0221415×10²³ hydrogen atoms. "One mole of grapefruits" means 6.0221415×10²³ grapefruits. We call this number Avogadro's number. We use this number because it is the number of carbon atoms in 12 grams of carbon-12, which is the most common kind of carbon. We can measure anything in moles, but it is not very useful for most things because the numbers are so big. For example, one mole of grapefruits would be as big as the earth. 

Because different molecules and atoms do not have the same mass, one mole of one thing does not weigh the same as one mole of something else. Atoms and molecule mass is measured in u. One u is equal to one gram per mole. This means that if an atom has a mass of one u, one mole of this atom weighs one gram.

Moles = mass (g) / Relative mass (grams per mole)
Example: How many moles are there in 20 grams of hydrogen?
A value of 1 can be used for hydrogen's relative mass, although the correct value is slightly larger. So: moles = mass/relative mass = 20/1 = 20 moles.

Moles = concentration (mol/dm) x volume (dm)
Example: How many moles are there in 100cm of 0.1M HSO?
1 dm is the same as 1000 cm, so the value in cubic centimetres needs to be divided by 1000. 100/1000 x 0.1 = 0.01 moles.

A methane molecule is made from one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. Carbon has a mass of 12.011 u and hydrogen has a mass of 1.008 u. This means that the mass of one methane molecule is 12.011 u + (4*1.008u), or 16.043 u. This means that one mole of methane has a mass of 16.043 grams.

A mole can be thought of as two bags of different sized balls. One bag contains tennis balls and the other footballs. There are the same amount of balls in both bags but the mass of the footballs is much larger. It is a different way to measure things. Moles measure the number of particles, not the mass. So both bags contain three moles.

A mole is simply a unit of the number of things. Units are invented when existing units can not describe something well enough. Chemical reactions often take place at levels where using grams wouldn't make sense, yet using absolute numbers of atoms/molecules/ions would be confusing, too.

The SI units for molar concentration are mol/m. However, most chemical writing uses mol/dm, or mol dm, which is the same as mol/L. These units are often written with a capital letter M (pronounced "molar"), sometimes preceded by an SI prefix, for example, millimoles per litre (mmol/L) or millimolar (mM), micromoles/litre (µmol/L) or micromolar (µM), or nanomoles/L (nmol/L) or nanomolar (nM).

The absolute yield of a chemical reaction mostly stated in moles (called the "molar yield").


</doc>
<doc id="43651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43651" title="Plesiosaurus">
Plesiosaurus

Plesiosaurus was a large fossil marine reptile, a genus in the order Plesiosauria. 

The first specimen discovered by Mary Anning in 1820-21 was missing its skull. She found it on the 'Jurassic Coast' of Lyme Regis, Dorset, England. In 1823 she found another one, this time complete with its skull. The name "Plesiosaurus" was given by the Rev. William Conybeare.

"Plesiosaurus" was a predator, living mostly on fish and belemnites. It would swim through schools of fish and use its long neck and sharp teeth to snap them up.

"Plesiosaurus" was a fairly typical member of its order, and measured around 3 to 5 metres (10 to 16 ft) in total length. The snout was short, but the jaws were able to open very wide, and had a series of conical teeth in sockets. The neck was quite long, and the short tail was used for steering. Like all plesiosaurs, it used its large paddles to swim.

Only two species are known, and the genus existed for about 25 million years from the beginning of the Jurassic period.


</doc>
<doc id="43659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43659" title="Doraemon">
Doraemon

Doraemon(ドラえもん) is a Japanese manga and anime series. It was written by Fujiko F. Fujio. It was started in a children’s magazine in 1969. Doraemon is the name of a robot cat that came from the future to help a boy named Nobita Nobi. Doraemon is about the life of Nobita Nobi. In a typical story Doramon uses a tool to solve a problem for Nobita, but Nobita goes too far and ends up being punished and learning a lesson.

Doraemon was turned into an anime television show in 1979. It still is being shown on television. As of 1996, about 100 million comic books have been sold. A Japanese-to-English version of the original called "Doraemon: Gadget Cat from the Future" was published from 2002. A local translation is published in each Asian country such as Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea and Vietnam. Despite popularity amongst people who only speak English, such as tourists who buy VHS and DVD media of Doraemon, the show is not in most English-speaking countries. Doraemon is endorsed by 7-11 in Thailand as a mascot.

future people



</doc>
<doc id="43660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43660" title="Alfred the Great">
Alfred the Great

Alfred the Great (c. 849 - 26 October 899) was king of Wessex from 871 to 899. He was the first monarch from the British Isles to style himself as 'King of the Anglo-Saxons' and so he is sometimes considered the first English king. Alfred started the Royal Navy in the 9th century.

Alfred earned the name 'the Great' by defending the kingdom from Viking invasions. Alfred was a scholar and encouraged education in the kingdom as well as improving the legal system. 

He married Alswitha of Mercia (b. 852 - d. 905), known as Queen Ealswitha. She is buried at the Church of St. Lawrence in the Square, Winchester, England.

Alfred died in 899, but it is not known how he died. He was succeeded by his son, Edward the Elder.


</doc>
<doc id="43661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43661" title="Festival">
Festival

A festival is a gathering of people to celebrate something. It can also refer to a particular day or group of days when people in a country have a holiday so that they can celebrate something. Festivals may be religious festivals. They may also be events which feature music, dancing, poetry etc.


</doc>
<doc id="43670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43670" title="Oort cloud">
Oort cloud

The Oort cloud, or Öpik–Oort cloud, is a cloud of comets and other objects which astronomers believe is way beyond the orbits of Pluto and the Kuiper belt. The Oort Cloud is believed to be the source of long-period comets in the Solar System.

The Oort cloud may lie about 50,000 AU, or nearly a light-year, from the Sun. This means the cloud is nearly a quarter of the way to Proxima Centauri, the nearest star to the Sun. 

The Kuiper belt and scattered disc, the other two reservoirs of trans-Neptunian objects, are less than one thousandth of the Oort cloud's distance. The outer limit of the Oort cloud defines the boundary of the Solar System and the region of the Sun's gravitational dominance.

The Dutch astronomer Jan Hendrik Oort was the creator of the Oort Cloud idea. The Oort cloud was named after him, as were the Oort Comet, and Oort Constants.

The Oort cloud takes up a lot of space and has trillions of comets about tens of millions of kilometers apart. 

The Oort cloud is made up of an Inner Oort cloud and an Outer Oort cloud. The Outer cloud is weakly bound to the Sun and gives the solor system comets. The Inner Cloud is also called the Hill Cloud and may be the maker of comets.

The objects in the Oort cloud are believed to consist of much ice, and since the object 1996 PW was found, it is believed that rocky objects might be in the Oort Cloud. 

The Oort cloud is thought to be the remains of a disk made out of gas which surrounded the Sun long ago.


</doc>
<doc id="43686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43686" title="Dynasty">
Dynasty

Dynasty means rulers who belong to the same family for generations. The term is also used to describe the era during which that family ruled.

Famous dynasties were: 

from England: The House of Tudor (1485-1603) and the House of Stuart (1603-1714).

from China: The Shang Dynasty (1766 BC–1050 BC), the Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368), the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) and the Qing Dynasty (1644–1912).















































</doc>
<doc id="43690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43690" title="Han Dynasty">
Han Dynasty

The Han Dynasty came to power in 202 BC. They followed the philosophy of Confucianism and Legalism. This was called the Han Sythesis. Under this dynasty, China made much progress in arts and science. The empire also became larger and larger. China started trading with a number of other countries. Merchants used the Silk Road to reach China. During this dynasty Buddhism was introduced in China. The Han dynasty was a very important period in Ancient China and many consider it to be the golden age of China.

Fairbank, John King and Merle Goldman (1992). "China: A New History; Second Enlarged Edition" (2006). Cambridge: MA; London: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press. ISBN 0-674-01828-1



</doc>
<doc id="43693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43693" title="Zhou Dynasty">
Zhou Dynasty

The Zhou Dynasty defeated the Shang Dynasty using the mandate of heaven and said they were immortal at about 3000 BC, and came to power. They changed the capital from Henan to a place near present day Xi'an, near the Yellow River. The Zhou Dynasty also brought a new theory. This theory told the people that kings had the order of the gods to rule the country (mandate of heaven). Almost all dynasties of Chinese rulers continued to repeat this theory. The kings of this dynasty won many new areas. For the first time in the history of China, large number of persons also moved from one area to other area for settlement.

During the Zhou Dynasty, the origins of matured Chinese philosophy developed. The greatest Chinese philosophers were "Kong Fuzi" (Latin: Confucius), founder of Confucianism, and Laozi, founder of Daoism. Other philosophers, theorists, and schools of thought in this era were Mozi (Latin: Micius), founder of "Mohism", Mengzi (Latin: Mencius), a famous Confucian who expanded upon Kong Fuzi's legacy, Shang Yang and Han Feizi, responsible for the development of ancient Chinese Legalism (the core philosophy of the Qin Dynasty), and Xunzi. 



</doc>
<doc id="43694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43694" title="Tony Iommi">
Tony Iommi

Frank Anthony "Tony" Iommi (born 19 February 1948, in Birmingham, England) is an English guitarist and songwriter. He is most famous for starting the heavy metal band Black Sabbath. He is the only person who has stayed a member of the band since it began in 1968.

In 2003, Iommi was listed at number 86 in Rolling Stone Magazine's ""100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time"" issue.

In 2006 Tony Iommi was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.


</doc>
<doc id="43698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43698" title="Yellow River">
Yellow River

The Yellow River or Huáng Hé (sometimes simply called the River in ancient Chinese) is the second longest river in China (after Yangtze River) and the sixth longest in the world. The river is 5464 km long and it drains at the Bohai Sea, a gulf of the Yellow Sea. The river is often called the "Mother River of China" and "the Cradle of the Chinese civilization" in China.



</doc>
<doc id="43705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43705" title="Rebellion">
Rebellion

A rebellion is when people refuse to obey orders and fight back against authority. It may happen when the citizens of a country take over the government by force because they do not trust the current system. Also, throughout history, there have been some slave rebellions when slaves fought back against their masters and against the slave system in general. Some slaves who have led slave rebellions include Spartacus and Nat Turner.

An example would be the Zhou leaders in China who made the rulers of other Chinese states that they captured live with their own families in the Zhou capital, Anyang. However, they failed to stop rebellion this way because it only brought on groups of lords who might rebel under their control. The Zhou dynasty declined because other lords that were ruling parts of China rebelled.


</doc>
<doc id="43710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43710" title="King of France">
King of France

France had many kings for a long time, until the French Revolution in 1789, when the French king was killed. 


</doc>
<doc id="43712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43712" title="Battle">
Battle

A battle is a fight between two or more groups where each group is trying to defeat (beat) the others. Battles are most often fought during wars, military campaigns, or two or more people fighting. If two armies fight many battles over period of time it is called a war.

Battles can very important, for example the 1389 Battle of Kosovo, which was a draw in military terms, changed the history of the Balkans, Europe, and the entire world. The outcome changed Ottoman politics and had influence in the region for well over 500 years.




</doc>
<doc id="43713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43713" title="Device">
Device

Device could mean:
Devise could also mean:

Or see the placename Devizes


</doc>
<doc id="43714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43714" title="Edward IV of England">
Edward IV of England

Edward IV of England was a king of England. He was born on April 28, 1442. He was King of England from March 4, 1461 until his death on April 9, 1483.

Edward was the eldest of the four sons of Richard Plantagenet, Duke of York. The Duke of York was a very powerful man, and had a claim to the throne of England. He became more popular than the existing king, Henry VI of England, who was thought to be weak. When the duke tried to take the throne from Henry VI, the Wars of the Roses broke out. By the time Edward was eighteen, he and his brother Edmund, Earl of Rutland, who was seventeen, were old enough to take part in the fighting, and Edward turned out to be a very good soldier. He was helped by Richard Neville, 16th Earl of Warwick, a clever nobleman who fought for the Duke of York. At the Battle of Wakefield in 1460, Edward's father, and his brother Edmund, were both killed. As his father's heir, he now claimed the throne. In March 1461, he entered London with his army and was crowned king, although he was only nineteen. King Henry VI was put into prison.

For a while, Edward ruled the country well, with help from the Earl of Warwick. Then Edward met a woman called Elizabeth Woodville, whom he wanted to marry. The Earl of Warwick did not know about their romance, and he wanted King Edward to marry a foreign princess in order to make an alliance with another country, which would have made his position stronger. Elizabeth and Edward got married secretly in about 1464, and they had ten children in the nineteen years of their marriage. 

When the Earl of Warwick learned of Edward's marriage, he was angry. He grew even more angry as time went on, because Elizabeth's family became powerful and the king no longer respected Warwick as he had done in the beginning. In 1459 he rebelled against the king, with help from another of Edward's younger brothers, George, Duke of Clarence; George was married to the Earl of Warwick's elder daughter, Isabel. The rebels went to France and made an alliance with Queen Margaret, who was the wife of King Henry VI. The Earl of Warwick managed to defeat King Edward in battle in 1471, and freed King Henry VI from prison. Henry was now king again, and Edward had to escape to Burgundy, while his wife and children went into hiding. 

The Duke of Burgundy was married to Edward's sister Margaret, so he was willing to help raise more troops. When Edward returned to England, he defeated the Earl of Warwick in battle and killed him. Shortly afterwards, Queen Margaret and her son arrived in England. They were also defeated in battle by King Edward, and his throne was safe. To make sure of this, Edward arranged for King Henry VI to be killed.

While Edward was away in Burgundy, his wife Elizabeth had given birth to a son, Edward, who was given the title of Prince of Wales. He would be the next king. Edward ruled with help from his two brothers. George, who had once rebelled against him, was now loyal, and the youngest brother, Richard, Duke of Gloucester, had always been loyal. There were still quarrels between them and the powerful Woodville family. George and Richard also quarrelled with each other, and in the end King Edward had to put George in prison, where he died.

Edward IV died very suddenly at the age of forty. His son became King Edward V of England, but his reign did not last long. Edward's brother, Richard, thought that it would not be a good idea for a boy to be king, and he took the throne himself. No one really knows what happened to Edward's two sons, the Princes in the Tower.


</doc>
<doc id="43718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43718" title="Pterosaur">
Pterosaur

Pterosaurs were flying reptiles which lived in the Mesozoic era at the same time as the dinosaurs. Most pterosaurs were quite small, but in the Upper Cretaceous some grew larger than any other flying animals. The pterosaur "Quetzalcoatlus" had a wing-span of up to 12 metres (~40 feet). 

The first fossils occur in the Upper Triassic, and the group continues until the K/T extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous (220 to 65.5 million years ago). Pterosaurs are the earliest vertebrates known to have evolved powered flight. Their wings were made from a flap of skin between their bodies and a big fourth finger (sometimes called the "wing finger"). The pterosaurs fall into two groups. The earlier Rhamphorhynchoids (e.g. "Rhamphorhynchus") had long tails and toothed jaws; The pterodactyloids (e.g. "Pterodactylus") had short tails, and many had beaks with no teeth.

The first pterosaur fossil was discovered in the Late Jurassic Solnhofen limestone in Germany in 1784. This was exactly the same place as "Archaeopteryx" was found. Georges Cuvier first suggested that pterosaurs were flying creatures in 1801. Since the first pterosaur fossil was found, twenty-nine species of pterosaurs have been found in those deposits alone. A famous early UK find was an example of "Dimorphodon" by Mary Anning, in 1828 at Lyme Regis, Dorset, England. The name Pterosauria was coined in 1834.

Pterosaurs were genuine fliers, able to flap or soar. Their bodies were covered with fine hairs, so they were able to regulate their temperature (they were warm-blooded). They are a close sister-group to the dinosaurs, part of the Archosauria.

This early group flourished from the Upper Triassic to the end of the Jurassic. When we first see them in the fossil record they have developed three families, so biologists know their early evolution is not yet revealed. These three families are represented by the three genera "Rhamphorhynchus", "Dimorphodon" and "Eudimorphodon". At least one more family appears at the start of the Jurassic, the Anurognathidae.

The group always has a long tail, usually stiffened by rod-like bony tendons to keep it straight. This indicates their flight was extremely stable, which means it kept on course, and did not dart about much. This feature is also found in "Archaeopteryx" and in early bats, and in insects like dragonflies. It can be interpreted like this. Early planes were highly stable, and so are airliners. To dart about quickly requires special advanced brains and reflexes, which later birds and pterosaurs had, but early ones did not. The analogy in planes would be fighter planes, which need such fast reactions that the details are worked out by computer, with the pilot indicating where to go. It requires more brains to control an unstable craft than it does a stable one.

All species in the group have teeth. This again has a parallel with birds; "Archaeopteryx" and many Cretaceous birds have teeth; modern birds do not. The disadvantage of teeth is that they are quite heavy; when the animal can do without them, they will gradually get selected out. Obviously, without teeth food cannot be chewed, but there are ways around that. In the first place, both birds and pterosaurs are mainly carnivorous; in the second place, stones in the gizzard or stomach can do the grinding if needed.

The group died out at the end of the Jurassic, which was a minor extinction event. Even near the end of the Jurassic, "Rhamphorhynchus" was the most common pterosaur found at the famous "Archaeopteryx" site at Solnhofen in Bavaria, Germany, so it is surprising that they became extinct so soon after that. A single specimen of the insect-eating "Anurognathus" was also found at Solnhofen. It had a shorter tail than any other rhamphorhynchoid. This suggests its need to dodge about to catch insects: "agile and highly manoeuvrable".

Fossil pterodactyloids appear in the Upper Jurassic. They were short-tailed pterosaurs, indicating that they had more sophisticated control of their flight, and that no doubt gave them some advantages. 2–300 specimens of 17 different species of pterosaur has been found at Solnhofen from eight different genera. They include the earliest examples of "Pterodactylus", and "Germanodactylus", a genus which is also found in England and China. "Ctenochasma", also from Solnhofen, had a comb of 260 thin teeth showing it to be a filter-feeder that may have waded or swam in the water. There were several other genera with similar life-styles.

In the Lower Cretaceous there were many pterodactyloids, mostly quite small. Gradually, larger versions evolved, and by the Upper Cretaceous most pterosaurs had huge wing-spans and clearly covered huge distances soaring on upcurrents in a warm environment. "Pteranodon", with a wing-span of over 20 feet (7m), and "Quetzalcoatlus", with a wingspan of 40 feet (12m) are famous examples. The question of their eating habits is still undecided.

Since birds were already common in the Lower Cretaceous, they would have competed vigorously with the smaller pterodactyloids. That may explain the extinction of the smaller pterosaur species, though the lack of fossils from the forested areas makes it difficult to judge. The huge Upper Cretaceous types clearly lived a different life-style from the smaller species, and one which was not yet accessible to birds. As the climate changed in the Upper Cretaceous, becoming colder and more seasonal, the number of pterosaurs became fewer. Like most of the larger species on Earth, the huge pterosaurs did not survive the K/T extinction event. At least some families of birds did. So ended the competition between the two types of flying reptile through the long 79 million years of the Cretaceous period.

There are many adaptations of the head and jaws of pterosaurs, so it is quite certain that different forms used different feeding methods, as birds do. Overall, most fossils have been found in marine strata, which suggests that they could fly well over water, and that fish was on the menu for many species. The jaws of fish-eaters was long and often held forward-pointing teeth, good for catching fish (see "Anhanguera"). Remains of a last fish supper have been found in "Pteranodon".

Fossils show that one pterosaur, the "Pterodaustro" found in Argentina, had comb-like strainers in its mouth. The pterosaur probably ate by filling its lower jaw with water and pushing the water out of its mouth through the strainers. The strainers could catch any plankton or other small creatures that were in the water, and when the water was gone, the animal could eat what was left. Other species had long, compressed lower jaws, which suggest they were skimmers at the top of the water.

The other main item of diet was the insects. Flying insects were abundant in the Mesozoic, and many pterosaur species give clear signs that this was their food. These have a broad mouth, often with short peg-like teeth.

For a long time people thought pterosaurs could only glide and soar, and were not strong enough to flap their wings. In the 20th century, after aeroplanes had been invented, our understanding of flight advanced. English palaeontologists showed that pterosaurs could fly, and Tilly Edinger showed that by the end of the Jurassic, pterosaur brains were more like that of modern birds than of "Archaeopteryx". Recent work has used working model to simulate their flight. The wing membrane was about 1mm thick, with a tough skin and had long fibres reinforcing it. This can be clearly seen in some of the fossils. The structure helped the wings survive the stresses of flight. The larger pterosaurs were mainly soarers, as is the case with birds today. 

How pterosaurs moved on the ground is something of a mystery, and would certainly have been clumsy. Both two-legged and four-legged stances have been proposed. A sleeping pose upside-down like a bat is quite convincing for "Pterodactylus".

Pterosaurs also had special bones. They were extremely light (even more than bird's wings – some were almost as thin as a piece of paper), and some were almost hollow. Tiny holes in the bones are evidence of air sacs which extended into the vertebrae and limb bones, as it does with birds. Also present were supporting struts which made these bones stronger. With these special bones, even the largest of pterosaurs, "Quetzalcoatlus", probably weighed less than 200 pounds.

Pterosaurs were probably egg-layers, and some eggs have been found at pterosaur sites. There is evidence that some species, such as "Pteranodon", had sexual dimorphism (sexes looked different). The skeletons with large cranial (head) crests and small pelvic canals were presumably males. Where several specimens occur at the same location, adults can be distinguished from juveniles. Evidence of tooth wear in "Eudimorphodon" suggests the young were insectivorous, while the adults ate fish. Development took place rapidly in these warm-blooded reptiles, and much of their life-style parallels that of birds. It is a fair assumption, then, that birds became their direct competitors in most environments. The high energy-level needed for flight explains why both reptilian forms (pterodactyls and birds) developed similar metabolism. In many respects, birds and pterosaurs are good examples of convergent evolution.



</doc>
<doc id="43719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43719" title="Category:Pterosaurs">
Category:Pterosaurs


</doc>
<doc id="43720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43720" title="Quetzalcoatlus">
Quetzalcoatlus

Quetzalcoatlus was a huge pterosaur, the largest animal ever to fly. It had a 10 to 12 meters wing-span (33/40 feet), but was light in construction (~200 pounds). 

"Quetzalcoatlus" had an unusually long neck, and when it stood on the ground it was as tall as a giraffe. 

Its fossil record is from the Upper Cretaceous of North America, 70–65.5 million years ago. "Quetzalcoatlus" became extinct at the K/T extinction event. 

The feeding habits of "Quetzalcoatlus" (which had a long beak with no teeth) are unknown, though two theories have been proposed. One idea is that it ate fish, by flying with its jaw in the water, and snapping up fish when it hit them. The other theory is that it was a carrion feeder, like vultures and buzzards. It was certainly a soarer, flying on up-currents of air in a warm environment, and its remains come from a site which was far inland in the Cretaceous.
This question, and its flight, are still being discussed. The lack of a more detailed skeleton is the main problem in reaching conclusions.

The first "Quetzalcoatlus" fossil was found in Big Bend National Park in Texas by a college student from the University of Texas in Austin. His name was Douglas Lawson. When he was in the park, he saw a bone sticking out of a rock. Since the bone looked very hollow, like the bone of a bird, he thought it was part of a flying creature – and he was right. With his professor's help, he kept digging until lots of bones from an arm and wing were found: but sadly, the rest of the animal's body was missing. Many others have looked for the rest of that huge pterosaur, but it has never been found. Other fossils of "Quetzalcoatlus" have been found, of course, but none were as big as the one Lawson found.

Since "Quetzalcoatlus" was so large, two researchers suggested it was too heavy to fly. This would have been astonishing, because in the whole fossil record there is no flightless pterosaur. It has been thought their mobility on the ground was too poor for them to survive without flight. However, a recent discussion of this idea concluded they probably could fly after all. Another analysis suggested their flight was quite strong. Since we have only a few bones, the question of weight cannot be settled at present.

"Quetzalcoatlus" was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" eating a dead "Triceratops" carcass.


</doc>
<doc id="43721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43721" title="Mozilla (web browser)">
Mozilla (web browser)

Mozilla was a web browser that was made open source. It was developed by Mozilla Foundation. 

Mozilla was the base of Mozilla Firefox.


</doc>
<doc id="43722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43722" title="Fedora (operating system)">
Fedora (operating system)

Fedora is a distribution (or "distro") of Linux developed by the community-supported Fedora Project and sponsored by Red Hat. It is designed to be safe and is used by companies and governments. Fedora's mission statement is: "Fedora is about the rapid progress of Free and Open Source software."

Linus Torvalds, author of the Linux kernel, says he uses Fedora because it had fairly good support for PowerPC when he used that processor architecture. He became used to the operating system and continues to use it.

"Fedora Core 1" was the first version of Fedora and was released on November 6, 2003, and was codenamed Yarrow. Fedora Core 1 was based on Red Hat Linux 9 and shipped with version 2.4.19 of the Linux kernel, version 2.4 of the GNOME desktop environment, and version 3.1.4 of KDE (the K Desktop Environment).

"Fedora Core 2" was released on May 18, 2004, codenamed Tettnang. It shipped with Linux 2.6, GNOME 2.6, KDE 3.2.2, and SELinux XFree86 was replaced by the newer X.org, a merger of the previous official X11R6 release, which additionally included a number of updates to Xrender, Xft, Xcursor, fontconfig libraries, and other significant improvements.

"Fedora Core 3" was released on November 8, 2004, codenamed Heidelberg. This was the first release of Fedora Core to include the Mozilla Firefox web browser, as well as support for the Indic languages. This release also replaced the LILO boot loader with GRUB. SELinux was also enabled by default, but with a new targeted policy, which was less strict than the policy used in Fedora Core 2. Fedora Core 3 shipped with GNOME 2.8 and KDE 3.3. It was the first release to include the new Fedora Extras repository.

"Fedora Core 4" was released on June 13, 2005, with the codename Stentz. It shipped with Linux 2.6.11, KDE 3.4 and GNOME 2.10. This version introduced the new Clearlooks theme, which was inspired by the Red Hat Bluecurve theme. It also shipped with the OpenOffice.org 2.0 office suite, as well as Xen, a high performance and secure open source virtualization framework. It also introduced support for the PowerPC CPU architecture, and over 80 new policies for SELinux.

The last two cores introduced specific artwork for that version. This is a trend that has continued in later Fedora versions.

"Fedora Core 5" was released on March 20 2006, with the codename Bordeaux, and introduced the Fedora Bubbles artwork. It was the first Fedora release to include Mono and tools built with it such as Beagle, F-Spot and Tomboy. It also introduced new package management tools such as pup and pirut ("see Yellow dog Updater, Modified"). This release replaced the old LinuxThreads, with the Native POSIX Thread Library.

"Fedora Core 6" was released on October 24 2006, codenamed Zod. This release introduced the Fedora DNA artwork, replacing the Fedora Bubbles artwork used in Fedora Core 5. The codename is derived from the infamous villain, General Zod, from the Superman DC Comic Books. This version introduced support for the Compiz compositing window manager and AIGLX (a technology that enables GL-accelerated effects on a standard desktop). It shipped with Firefox 1.5 as the default web browser, and Smolt, a tool that allows users to inform developers about the hardware they use.

None of these distributions are maintained by the Fedora Project.

Fedora 10, codenamed "Cambridge", was released on 25 November 2008.




</doc>
<doc id="43725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43725" title="Template:Babel">
Template:Babel


</doc>
<doc id="43729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43729" title="Bagel">
Bagel

Bagels are a type of bread made with flour. They look like doughnuts, and they are leavened with yeast. They have a crisp, shiny crust and a dense inside. Bagels are glazed, and in a ring-shaped roll. They are different from doughnuts because they are boiled before baked.
The bagel is regarded as a special kind of Jewish food. They are eaten usually for breakfast or a snack.

Bagels are made from the basic bread ingredients of flour, yeast, salt, and sweet kinds of spices. Flour gives the bread its chewy taste, which can be made more light by eggs, milk, and butter. They are the only bread product that is boiled before it is baked.

Bagels are often toasted in a toaster and then paired with foods like cream cheese (a soft cheese that tastes a little sweet) and jam, or with butter. Bagels can also be used to make sandwiches, with meat (for example smoked salmon) and egg and cheese. Bagel sandwiches are usually eaten for breakfast or lunch.

The first bagel was made in 1683 when a baker from Vienna Austria was grateful to the King of Poland for saving Austria from the Turkish people. The baker changed the local bread so that it would look like the King’s stirrup. The new bread was called "beugel", which was from the German word for stirrup, "bugel".

Bagels were first sold in grocery stores in the 1950's. Frozen bagels were first introduced in 1960.

When Austrian Jews went away to America, they brought the beugel with them. The first beugel bakeries were founded in New York City in the 1920s. Later the name was changed and called a bagel. Bagels have been used as a symbol of the continuous cycle of life—without beginning and without end.


</doc>
<doc id="43730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43730" title="Doughnut">
Doughnut

A doughnut (spelled donut in American English) is a sweet deep-fried piece of dough or batter. 

Ring doughnuts are made by joining the ends of a long, thin piece of dough into a ring or by using a doughnut cutter, which perfectly cuts the outside and inside shape, leaving a doughnut-shaped piece of dough and a doughnut hole from dough removed from the center. This smaller piece of dough can be cooked or re-added to the batch to make more doughnuts. A disk-shaped doughnut can also be stretched and molded into a torus until the center breaks to form a hole. Or, a doughnut depositor can be used to place a circle of liquid dough (batter) into the deep fryer. Doughnuts can be made from a yeast-based dough for more puffy doughnuts or a special type of cake batter. Yeast-raised doughnuts contain about 25% oil by weight, whereas cake doughnuts' oil content is around 20%, but they have extra fat in the batter before frying. Cake doughnuts are fried for about 90 seconds at about 190 °C to 198 °C, turning once. Yeast-raised doughnuts absorb more oil because they take longer to fry, about 150 seconds, at 182 °C to 190 °C. Cake doughnuts normally weigh between 24 g and 28 g, whereas yeast-raised doughnuts normally are 38 g and are mostly larger when finished.

The two most common types of doughnut are ring doughnuts, which are shaped like rings, and filled doughnuts, which are round and have jam, jelly, custard, whipped cream, or chocolate inside them. Most doughnuts have an icing (also called a "frosting") made with icing sugar, water, and flavourings (such as chocolate). Some doughnuts are rolled in sweet foods such as sugar or shredded coconut.

Doughnuts are often eaten in the morning, along with a cup of hot coffee. Doughnuts are sold at doughnut shops or grocery stores. People also eat doughnuts as a dessert, or as a snack.

Doughnuts can cause health problems if they are eaten too often. One of these problems is that doughnuts contain a large amount of fat. Eating too much fat can lead to clogged arteries. When the arteries get clogged, blood does not go through them easily. Also, doughnuts contain a large amount of sugar and white flour, which are turned into fat when they come inside our body. Doughnuts are a health worry in Canada where each person eats more doughnuts per year than any other country.


</doc>
<doc id="43733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43733" title="Category:1781 births">
Category:1781 births


</doc>
<doc id="43737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43737" title="Category:Pink Floyd">
Category:Pink Floyd


</doc>
<doc id="43738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738" title="Mary II of England">
Mary II of England

Mary II (30 April 1662 – 28 December 1694) was Queen regnant of England, Scotland, and Ireland from 1689 until her death. Mary was a Protestant. She became queen after the Glorious Revolution, which resulted in the deposition of her Roman Catholic father, James II and VII. Mary ruled together with her husband, William III and II. He became the ruler of both countries when she died in 1694. Popular histories usually call their joint reigns as those of "William and Mary". Mary had less power than William when William remained in England. When William went to military campaigns, however, she governed alone. She was a powerful, firm, and effective ruler. She gave most of her authority to her husband, but he greatly depended on her. She was very active in the Church of England, ruling it as its Supreme Governor. Though she shared this position with her husband, she used most of its power herself.

Mary was born at St. James Palace in London on 30 April 1662. Her father was James, Duke of York, and her mother was his first wife, Lady Anne Hyde. She was their oldest daughter. Mary's uncle was Charles II. Her grandfather by her mother's side was Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon. He served for a long time as Charles's chief advisor. Her mother gave birth to eight children, but only Mary and her younger sister Anne lived to adulthood.

The Duke of York became a Roman Catholic in 1668 or 1669, but Mary and Anne had a Protestant education, as Charles II had commanded. Mary's mother died in 1671, and her father married again in 1673. He took Mary of Modena, a Catholic, as his second wife. She was also known as Mary Beatrice d'Este. Before her marriage, Mary wrote many letters to Frances Apsley, the daughter of James II's hawks keeper. However, she did not return Mary's interest.

When she was 15, Lady Mary became betrothed to her first cousin, the Protestant William, Prince of Orange. William was the son of Mary, Princess Royal and Prince William II of Nassau. At first, Charles II did not want Mary to marry William. He wanted Mary to marry the heir to the French Throne, the Dauphin Louis, instead. This was because he hoped that England would become friends with France. He also wanted to have a Catholic successor to the throne. But because of Parliament's pressure, he later approved their marriage. He thought that it would make the Protestants like him more, but he was wrong. Mary and William married in London on 4 November 1677. It was reported that Mary wept through the whole ceremony.

Mary went to the Netherlands and lived there as William's wife. The Dutch people liked her because of her lively, friendly nature, and Mary loved William deeply. However, the marriage was often unhappy. Her three pregnancies ended in miscarriage or stillbirth, and Mary was very sad that she did not have a child. Her husband was often cold to her, and he had an affair with Elizabeth Villiers, one of Mary's ladies-in-waiting, for a long time. After some time, though, he grew warmer towards Mary.

When Charles II died without any children in 1685, the Duke of York became King as James II in England and Ireland. He also became James VII in Scotland. He tried to give freedom of religion to non-Anglicans. He did this by making the acts of Parliament by Royal Decree. The public did not like this. Several Protestant politicians and noblemen entered into negotiations (trying to reach agreements through discussion) with Mary's husband as early as 1687. In May 1688, James forced Anglican clergymen to read the Declaration of Indulgence. The Declaration of Indulgence was a statement that gave religious freedom to those who did not agree with the Church of England. This made him much less popular. Protestants became even more fearful when his wife, Mary of Modena, gave birth to a son—James Francis Edward—in June 1688. They were fearful because the son would, unlike Mary and Anne, be raised a Roman Catholic. Some said that the boy had been secretly carried into the Queen's room in a bed-warming pan instead of her stillborn baby. There was no strong proof to support this story, but Mary publicly doubted the boy's legitimacy. She sent a list of suspicious questions to her sister, Anne, about the boy's birth.

On 30 June, the Immortal Seven secretly asked William, who was in the Netherlands with Mary, to come to England with an army. William, who was jealous of Mary's position and power, did not want to go at first. But Mary told William that she did not care about political power. She said "she would be no more but his wife, and that she would do all that lay in her power to make him King for life".

William agreed to attack. He declared that James' newborn son was the "pretended Prince of Wales". He also gave a list of what the English people wanted, and said that he only wanted to have "a free and lawful Parliament assembled". The Dutch army, which had been turned back by a storm in October, landed on 5 November. The English Army and Navy went over to William. At this time, the English people's confidence in James was very low. They did not even try to save their King. On 11 December, the King tried to run away, but failed. He tried to run away again on 23 December. This second attempt was successful, and James escaped to France. He lived there in exile until his death.

Though Mary was sad because of the deposition of her father, William ordered her to look happy when they arrived in London. Because of this, people thought she was being cold to her father. James also thought his daughter was unfaithful to him. This hurt Mary deeply.

In 1689, a Convention Parliament called by the Prince of Orange came together to discuss what they should do. William of Orange felt uncomfortable about his position. He wanted to rule as a King, not simply as a husband of a Queen. The only example of joint monarchy was from the sixteenth century. This was Queen Mary I and the Spanish Prince Philip. When they married, it was agreed that Prince Philip would take the title of King. But Philip II was King only during his wife's lifetime. He also did not have much power. William wanted to remain King even after his wife's death. Some important people suggested making Mary the only ruler. But Mary, who was faithful to her husband, refused.

On 13 February 1689, Parliament passed the Declaration of Right. In this declaration, it said that James, by trying to run away on 11 December 1688, had abandoned the government, so no one at the time was king. Normally, James's oldest son, James Francis Edward would have been the heir. However, Parliament offered the crown to William and Mary as joint Sovereigns instead. But it was added that "the sole and full exercise of the regal (royal) power be only in and executed by the said Prince of Orange in the names of the said Prince and Princess during their joint lives." The declaration was later extended to take out all Catholics. This was because "it hath been found (discovered) by experience that it is inconsistent (not in harmony) with the safety and welfare of this Protestant kingdom to be governed by a papist prince".

William and Mary were crowned together at Westminster Abbey on 11 April 1689. The Archbishop of Canterbury usually performed coronations. But William Sancroft, the Archbishop at that time, felt that James II's removal had been wrong. Therefore, the Bishop of London, Henry Compton, crowned them instead. On the day of the Coronation, the Convention of the Estates of Scotland declared at last that James was no longer King of Scotland. William and Mary were offered the separate Scottish Crown. This was because the two kingdoms were not united until the Acts of Union in 1707. They accepted on 11 May.

Even after this was declared, there was still strong support for James in Scotland. John Graham of Clevehouse, the Viscount of Dundee, raised an army and won a victory at Killiecrankie on 27 July. But Dundee's army suffered great losses, and he was seriously wounded at the start of the battle. This stopped the only effective resistance to William, and the revolt was quickly crushed. The next month, there was a great defeat at the Battle of Dunkeld.

In December 1689 Parliament passed one of the most important documents in English history. This was the Bill of Rights. This measure gave several rights to Parliament and the people. Among other things, it declared that the Sovereign could not break laws passed by Parliament, demand taxes if the Parliament did not agree, raise an army during a time of peace if the Parliament did not agree, or punish members of the House of Parliament for anything they said during discussions.

After either William III or Mary II died, the other was to continue to rule. The person who would become the monarch after them would be any of their children. After the children would be Mary's sister Anne and her children. Last of all would be any children William III might have had from any marriage after that.

From 1690, William was often away from England, at first fighting Jacobites in Ireland. While her husband was away, Mary took care of the government. She was a firm ruler, and ordered her own uncle, Henry Hyde, 2nd Earl of Clarendon, to go to prison for trying to put James II back onto the throne. In 1692, she fired and put John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough, in prison for similar reasons. This made her much less popular. It also damaged her relationship with her sister, Anne. Anne had been strongly influenced by Churchill's wife, Sarah. She appeared at court with Sarah and supported Churchill, which made Mary very angry. She demanded that Anne make Sarah go away. Mary did not visit Anne during her pregnancy after that. After the baby was born, Mary did visit Anne, but she spent her time berating Anne for her friendship with Sarah. The sisters never saw each other again.

William had crushed the Irish Jacobites by 1692, but he continued with campaigns away from England to begin a war against France in the Netherlands. When William was away, Mary acted in her own name but on his advice. When he was in England, Mary never joined in political matters, as had been agreed in the Bill of Rights. However, she did join in the affairs of the Church, and all church matters passed through her hands.

Mary died of smallpox at Kensington Palace on 28 December 1694. She was buried at Westminster Abbey. When she died, Henry Purcell was called to write her funeral music, titled "Music for the Funeral of Queen Mary". William had grown to depend on Mary more and more, and was very sad when she died. It is reported that he said that "from being the happiest" he was "now going to be the miserablest creature on earth".

After Mary II's death, William III continued to rule as King. Princess Anne's last living child, William, Duke of Gloucester, died in July 1700. Parliament saw that William would have no more children. Because of this, it passed the Act of Settlement 1701. After Anne, the Crown would go to their nearest Protestant relative, Sophia, Electress of Hanover, and her Protestant heirs. When William III died in 1702, he was succeeded by Anne. She was succeeded by the son of Electress Sophia, George I.

Mary gave money to the College of William and Mary (in the present day Williamsburg, Virginia) in 1693. She also began the Royal Hospital for Seamen, Greenwich.



William III and Mary II called themselves "William and Mary, by the Grace of God, King and Queen of England, France and Ireland, Defenders of the Faith, etc." when they began their rule. On 11 April 1689, the Estates of Scotland recognized them as Sovereigns. From then on, William and Mary called themselves "William and Mary, by the Grace of God, King and Queen of England, Scotland, France and Ireland, Defenders of the Faith, etc.".

The arms used by the King and Queen were: "Quarterly, I and IV Grandquarterly, Azure three fleurs-de-lis Or (for France) and Gules three lions passant guardant in pale Or (for England); II Or a lion rampant within a tressure flory-counter-flory Gules (for Scotland); III Azure a harp Or stringed Argent (for Ireland); overall an escutcheon Azure billetty and a lion rampant Or (for the House of Orange-Nassau)".


</doc>
<doc id="43740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43740" title="Goal">
Goal

Goal can mean more than one thing. These meanings are listed below:



</doc>
<doc id="43743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43743" title="Category:Computers">
Category:Computers

This category consists of computers and computer hardware.


</doc>
<doc id="43744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43744" title="1936 Summer Olympics">
1936 Summer Olympics

The 1936 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XI Olympiad, were celebrated in Berlin, Germany from August 1, 1936, to August 16, 1936.


</doc>
<doc id="43746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43746" title="Mesopotamia">
Mesopotamia

Mesopotamia, from the Greek language, means 'between the rivers'. It includes the Euphrates and the Tigris rivers, and the fertile land which surrounds them. It is part of the Fertile Crescent. Mesopotamia is today is split. Most of it is in Iraq, but parts are in Syria, Turkey and Iran. 

The area is often called the 'Cradle of Civilization'. The ancient writing called cuneiform was first used around 3000 BC by the Sumerians. They lived in city-states (a city and the land around it). According to Genesis in the Old Testament, Abraham lived in Mesopotamia before moving to Canaan.

Historically important cities in Mesopotamia included Uruk, Nippur, Nineveh, and Babylon, as well as major territorial states such as the city of Ma-asesblu, the Akkadian kingdom, the Third Dynasty of Ur, and the Assyrian empire. Some of the important historical Mesopotamian leaders were Ur-Nammu (king of Ur), Sargon (who started the Akkadian Kingdom), Hammurabi (who established the Old Babylonian state), and Tiglath-Pileser I (who started the Assyrian Empire).

Many advances in technology were made by the ancient Sumerians and Mesopotamians, such as irrigation, and trade by river, and flood control. Mesopotamians had agriculture and domesticated animals, or livestock, from the earliest records. Babylon is probably the first city built by settled people. Mesopotamia also was the place where the wheel was first used. First it was a pottery wheel that was used to make clay pots, then Sumerians adapted it for transport.

Mesopotamia is made up of different regions. Northern Mesopotamia is made up of hills and plains. Seasonal rains, and the rivers and streams come from the mountains. Early settlers farmed the land and used timber, metals and stone. Southern Mesopotamia is made up of marshy areas and wide, flat, plains. Cities developed along the rivers which flow through the region. Early settlers had to irrigate the land along the banks of the rivers in order for their crops to grow. 

Mesopotamia has been conquered many times, by many different peoples. It was the heartland of the Sumerian, Akkadian, Babylonian and Assyrian empires. As each new group moved into the region they adopted some of the culture, traditions and beliefs of the people who had come before. It was conquered by Alexander the Great (332 BC), the Parthians (150 BC), the Romans, the Persian Empire, the Arabs (7th century). It is still one of the most fertile (and therefore valuable) parts of the Middle East.

Ancient Mesopotamia begins in the late 6th millennium BC, and ends with either the rise of the Achaemenid Persians in the 6th century BC or the Muslim conquest of Mesopotamia in the 7th century CE. This long period may be divided as follows:

The Epic of Gilgamesh is an ancient story about a relationship between Gilgamesh and his close companion, Enkidu. Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh's equal to distract him from oppressing the citizens of Uruk. Together they undertake dangerous quests that incur the displeasure of the gods. Firstly, they journey to the Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba, its monstrous guardian. Later they kill the Bull of Heaven that the goddess Ishtar has sent to punish Gilgamesh for turning down her advances.

The second part of the epic is about Gilgamesh's distressed reaction to Enkidu's death, which takes the form of a quest for immortality. Gilgamesh attempts to learn the secret of eternal life by undertaking a long and perilous journey to meet the immortal flood hero, Utnapishtim. The words addressed to Gilgamesh in the midst of his quest foreshadow the end result: 




</doc>
<doc id="43747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43747" title="Joss Whedon">
Joss Whedon

Joss Hill Whedon is an American writer, director and producer. He was born Joseph Hill Whedon on June 23, 1964 in New York. He created the well-known television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "Angel", and "Firefly". He has also written several movie scripts and several comic book series. After graduating from high school in 1982, he went to Winchester College in England. He then got a film degree from Wesleyan University in 1987.
After moving to Los Angeles, Whedon got his first writing job on the television series "Roseanne". After working on movie scripts for several years, he went back to television, where he created three television series. Joss has had a couple of cameos (brief 'fun' appearances) in his series "Buffy", "Angel", and "Firefly". He has also been in an episode of "Veronica Mars".

Whedon has been said to be the world's first third-generation television writer. His father is Tom Whedon, a writer for "The Electric Company" in the 1970s and "The Golden Girls" in the 1980s. His grandfather is John Whedon, a writer for "The Donna Reed Show" in the 1950s. His brother, Zack Whedon, is a writer on HBO's "Deadwood".

The movie "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", filmed by director Fran Rubel Kuzui after a script of Whedon's, was not well-liked by critics and audiences. Years after, Whedon picked up its idea again and turned it into a hugely successful television series, also called "Buffy the Vampire Slayer".

The episode "Hush" (written by Whedon) got an Emmy Award nomination for Best Writing in a Drama Series in 2000. Another episode that got an Emmy Award nomination was "Once More, With Feeling", written and directed by Whedon. This was a musical episode, in which the actors were singing and dancing.

The series aired on The WB Network for five seasons, then moved to UPN for its last two seasons. It was the first series in television history to change networks between seasons without being cancelled and then picked up by a different network. Though "Buffy" first aired on Mondays at 9pm, from the middle of the second season it ran on Tuesdays at 8pm. In the musical episode, Buffy makes the comment, "Dawn's in trouble. Must be Tuesday."

"Angel" was a spin-off of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". The series was named after Buffy's vampire-with-a-soul boyfriend. It was created by Whedon and David Greenwalt. Tim Minear also helped at times. First shown in September 1999 on the WB, the series was on after "Buffy" on Tuesday evenings. When "Buffy" switched networks in 2001, "Angel" aired in a number of different time slots. The series' last episode had more people watching than the final "Buffy" episode. Joss Whedon was briefly in the series as the character 'Numfar' in its second season. The WB cancelled the series in May 2004 while it was in its fifth season. As Whedon had not planned to end "Angel," he had to change the story and ending of both the final season and the series.

The series "Firefly" did not go smoothly. Fox canceled it in 2002, after airing only 11 of the 14 episodes and airing them out of order. The original two-hour pilot was the last episode aired. The contract with Fox did not allow the series to be shown by another network. Because of how Fox handled "Firefly", Whedon has said that he will not work with Fox again, under any circumstances.

Whedon had been writing a movie script about the "Firefly" series for Universal Studios. When the television series came out on DVD, the sales of the DVD were good enough to make sure the movie could be produced. In early 2004 Whedon said that a "Firefly" movie had been accepted by Universal, and shooting started in July 2004. The movie, called "Serenity", was in movie theaters in the United States on September 30, 2005. It was well liked by critics and fans, but did not make much money in theaters.

Although Whedon has said that he would not work with Fox again, it was announced on November 1, 2007 that this was changed. Whedon was hired to create seven episodes of a new series named "Dollhouse" starring Eliza Dushku. Dushku and Whedon have worked together before on "Buffy". The series is about people who have memories, skills and even complete personalities put into their minds for special jobs. After the job, their minds are erased until the next job. "Dollhouse" tells the story of Dushku's character, Echo, as she starts to remember things about herself even though her mind is constantly being erased. The series is about her trying to learn who she really is.

"Dollhouse" first aired on February 13, 2009.

Whedon has written and helped write several movies including "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "Toy Story", "" and "Titan A.E.". He was nominated for an Academy Award for "Toy Story"'s screenplay.

He also wrote helped edit and rewrite the scripts of "Speed", "Waterworld", "Twister" and "X-Men". Except for "Speed", not much of Whedon's work stayed in the final versions of any of these screenplays. He has said that he had a good script for "Alien: Resurrection", which was ruined by its director Jean-Pierre Jeunet. His "Waterworld" script was thrown out. Only two of his lines were kept in the final script of "X-Men". Even the "Buffy" movie was very different from what he originally wrote. According to Graham Yost, the writer of "Speed", Whedon wrote most of its dialogue.

He wrote and directed 2005's "Serenity", based on his television series "Firefly". "Serenity" won the 2006 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Long Form.

In 2006, Whedon was scheduled to write and direct Warner Bros.' version of "Wonder Woman". He eventually stopped working on the script. Universal Pictures agreed to a script by Whedon called "Goners" which he will also direct.

Parts of the storyline in the movie "" are very similar to what he wrote in the Marvel comic book "Astonishing X-Men". The idea of a cure for mutation was his story. The scientist who finds the cure in the movie is named Dr. Kavita Rao. This is the same name as the scientist in the comic book. Simon Kinberg has said someone at the studio who had read Whedon's comics asked the writers to use a mutant cure idea in their script.
In an interview with Empire Online, Whedon said he would like to direct a Harry Potter movie. However, he has not seen any of the movies and will not watch any until J.K. Rowling is done writing the series

Whedon has loved comic books all his life. He wrote the Dark Horse Comics series "Fray". The story takes place in the far future of the Buffyverse.

He was also involved with the "Buffy" comic book series. He wrote the main storyline of the five-issue mini-series "Tales of the Vampires" and three stories in the "Tales of the Slayers". One of those stories was about Melaka Fray from "Fray".

The three-issue mini-series "" was based on the "Firefly" series. It took place just before the movie "Serenity". It was released from June to August of 2005. The first two issues sold out before going into a second printing. 

Whedon has said that more "Serenity" comics are planned for the near future. 
Whedon and other "Buffy" writers write more for the "Buffy" series. These stories would take place after the final episode. They would be considered "Season 8". The first 6-issues are due out in March 2007. Both projects will be published by Dark Horse Comics. In August 2007, Dark Horse Comics began a series on online comics on MySpace. One of the series shown, "Sugarshock", is written by Whedon 

Whedon is also writing "Astonishing X-Men" in Marvel Comics' popular series about the X-Men. This has been one of Marvel's best-selling comics in 2006. It has been nominated for many awards. It won the award for "Best Continuing Series" in 2006. 

It has also been said that Whedon helped writers with the ending to the comic "Civil War".

Whedon will become the new writer of the Marvel comic "Runaways" when series creator Brian K. Vaughan finishes his run. Whedon is actually a fan of the series. He had a letter published in the first volume. The letter was included in the Volume 1 hardcover version.

Whedon sees himself as a feminist. Feminist themes are common in his work. The best example is what he says is his habit of writing about "teenage girls with superpowers". This is seen in "Buffy", "Firefly", and "Serenity". Whedon says his mother is the reason for his feminist idea. When Roseanne Barr asked him how he could write so well for women, he replied, "If you met my mom, you wouldn't ask." 

The character Kitty Pryde from the X-Men comic was an early model for Whedon's strong teenage girl characters: "If there's a bigger influence on Buffy than Kitty, I don’t know what it was. She was an adolescent girl finding out she has great power and dealing with it." Many of Whedon's young female characters went through the same type of thing. Whedon has now come full circle, writing the character of Kitty Pryde in the "Astonishing X-Men" comic.

Whedon is interested in the homosexual community. He is strongly for gay rights. In his works, including "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", he has gay characters as both the major and the minor characters. In "Buffy", he used scenes that suggested that either Xander Harris or Willow Rosenberg might be homosexual. At the time, he did not know which character he wanted to be gay. He decided that Willow would take part in a lesbian relationship with another young woman, fellow college student Tara Maclay. Two more minor characters in the series, Larry and Scott, were also homosexuals. In "Angel", the script hinted at a homosexual experience between Spike and Angel. In "Firefly", Inara Serra was shown as being bisexual. She accepted both male and female clients.

The dialogue in Joss Whedon's series and movies is notable. It is often very witty and has many pop culture references. Some are easy to notice other are more difficult. He also likes to turn nouns into adjectives by adding a "y" at the end of the word ("Vampires are fangy"). According to one of the "Buffy" writers, "It's just the way that Joss actually talks." 

Many characters die in Whedon's series. This is very true in "Buffy". It is common for extras and even minor characters to die in action-based series and movies. Whedon also kills off main characters. He gets the audience to care about the character before their death. It is a part of "doing [his] job". On the 'Serenity' DVD commentary, Whedon says that he'd rather have fans say 'Why'd they kill (that guy)? I liked him!' than 'Oh. He's dead. Turn the page'. Whedon often kills off characters right after something very good happens to them.

As seen in "Buffy," "Firefly," and "Angel", nearly all of the romantic relationships Whedon series end badly. One member in the relationship will usually end up dying or turning evil. The break-up will end up being very painful. 

There is a strong theme that family is the group of people that a person lives their life with, not the people that raised them as a child. This is a major theme for the main characters in all of his television series.

Whedon often shows fathers in a bad way. Most of them are not around. Wes' father was shown several times to be abusive. While mothers play a big part in his works, characters rarely talk about or seem to be ever affected by their fathers. Whedon's characters often find someone to take the place of a father in their lives.


</doc>
<doc id="43756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43756" title="Guanajuato, Guanajuato">
Guanajuato, Guanajuato

Guanajuato is a Mexican city. It is one of Mexico's safest cities. Guanajuato is the capital of Guanajuato state.


</doc>
<doc id="43758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43758" title="Bathurst, New South Wales">
Bathurst, New South Wales

Bathurst is a city in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is about 200km west of Sydney. Bathurst has a campus of Charles Sturt University and a cathedral.


</doc>
<doc id="43766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43766" title="List of Pacific typhoon seasons">
List of Pacific typhoon seasons

The following is a list of Pacific typhoon seasons. Unlike Atlantic and Pacific hurricane seasons, they run for the whole year, starting on January 1 and ending on December 31. These dates are when tropical cyclones usually form in the western half of the Pacific Ocean, north of the equator.

1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959

1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969

1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979

1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989

1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999

2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011



</doc>
<doc id="43771" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43771" title="Songhai Empire">
Songhai Empire

The Songhai Empire was a Muslim empire that started after the Mali Empire ended. It was one of the largest African empires in history. It lasted from 1375-1591 A.D
The Songhai Empire was also called Songhay and Songhae. They traded gold, salt, and copper.


</doc>
<doc id="43773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43773" title="SeaMonkey">
SeaMonkey

SeaMonkey is a free and open source Internet application suite, which uses the Gecko rendering engine. It works on many operating systems. It is very useful, and includes an e-mail client, a calendar, a HTML editor, an IRC client, and a web browser. It is made by the SeaMonkey Council, formerly by Mozilla Foundation.

On March 10, 2005 the Mozilla Foundation said that they will not develop the Mozilla Application suite, including the Netscape web browser, because Firefox and Thunderbird were more popular. The SeaMonkey Council renamed the project SeaMonkey and continued its development. The newest version of its main release version is 2.0.

The web browser of SeaMonkey contains a lot of features used in new web browsers like tabbed browsing, pop-up blocking, e-mail, newsgroups, web editing software, spell checking, and an address book.

Optionally included in the SeaMonkey suite is an IRC chat application.




</doc>
<doc id="43774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43774" title="Proceratosaurus">
Proceratosaurus

Proceratosaurus was a dinosaur from the Middle Jurassic era around 165 million years ago. It was found in London, England, the capital of the United Kingdom in Europe. It was first believed to be an early ancestor of Ceratosaurus; though later scientists discovered that it was actually an ancestor of the coelurosaurs. It was probably an early relative of Compsognathus and the later tyrannosaurids like Tyrannosaurus. The Proceratosaurus usually grew up to 7 feet tall and 17 feet long.


</doc>
<doc id="43775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43775" title="Cowboy Bebop">
Cowboy Bebop

Cowboy Bebop is a Japanese anime television show. It first aired in Japan in 1998. It was created by Sunrise and directed by Shinichiro Watanabe. The show is about a group of bounty hunters who travel in outer space to catch criminals. It has 26 episodes. The series has received a "TV-MA" rating in the United States.

Cowboy Bebop first aired in the United States in 2001 on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim. It was the first anime to be aired on Adult Swim. It was very successful. It was so successful that Cartoon Network decided to put more anime on Adult Swim.

There is a movie, a manga, and two video games based on the show. The movie is called "". The video games are for Playstation and Playstation 2. They were never released in the United States.

Cowboy Bebop is inspired by American culture. Jazz music is mostly played in the show. The episodes are called "Sessions." 

Cowboy Bebop takes place in the year 2071. The members of the space ship Bebop travel through outer space trying to catch criminals. Bounty hunters are known as "Cowboys". If they catch the criminals alive then they get a reward. If the criminals die, the cowboys get nothing. The criminals are called bounties. Most episodes are about catching a bounty. Some episodes are about the characters' pasts and lives. At the beginning there are two main heroes, Spike and Jet. Later they would meet with others. They had become the crew of the space ship Bebop. Other members of the Bebop are Faye, computer hacker Ed, and a dog named Ein.

Main Characters

Supporting Characters



</doc>
<doc id="43778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43778" title="The Vision of Escaflowne">
The Vision of Escaflowne

The Vision of Escaflowne is a Japanese anime television show that aired in Japan on April 2, 1996. It is called Tenkuu no Escaflowne in Japanese which means "Escaflowne of the Heavens". It was made by Sunrise and directed by Kazuki Akane. Escaflowne has 26 episodes.

"Escaflowne" has two mangas based on it, a videogame that was made for Playstation, and a movie.




















Episode 1 Faiteful Confession

Episode 2 The Girl From the Mystic Moon

Episode 3 A Gallant Swordsman
Episode 4 The Diabolical Adonis

Episode 5 Seal of the Brothers

Episode 6 City of Intrigue

Episode 7 Unexpected Partings

Episode 8 The Day the Angel Flew

Episode 9 Memories of a Feather

Episode 10 The Blue Eyed Prince

Episode 11 Prophecy of Death

Episode 12 The Secret Door

Episode 13 Red Destiny

Episode 14 Dangerous Wounds

Episode 15 Paradise Lost

Episode 16 The Guided Ones

Episode 17 The Edge of the World

Episode 18 Gravity of Destiny

Episode 19 Operation: Golden Rule of Love

Episode 20 False Vows

Episode 21 Reaction of Fortune

Episode 22 The Black Winged Angel

Episode 23 Storm Premonition

Episode 24 Fateful Decision

Episode 25 The Zone of Absolute Fortune

Episode 26 Eternal Love


</doc>
<doc id="43779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43779" title="Fusion">
Fusion

Fusion means to merge or combine. It could also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="43780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43780" title="Fir">
Fir

Firs ("Abies") are about 45-55 species of evergreen trees in the family "Pinaceae". All are trees, reaching heights of 10–80 m tall and trunk diameters of 0.5–4 m when mature. The difference between firs and other members of the pine family is that their needle-like leaves are attached to the twig by a base that resembles a small suction cup, and by erect, cylindrical cones 5–25 cm long that release the winged seeds.


</doc>
<doc id="43783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43783" title="Conifer cone">
Conifer cone

A cone (or pine cone) is an organ on plants in the division Pinophyta (conifers) that contains the reproductive structures. It is the part of a tree that lets the tree reproduce. Its formal name in botany is strobilus, plural "strobili".

The familiar woody cone is the female cone, which produces seeds. The male cones, which produce pollen, are usually smaller and much less conspicuous even at full maturity. The individual plates of a cone are known as scales.

The male cone (microstrobilus or pollen cone) is structurally similar across all conifers, differing only in small ways (mostly in scale arrangement) from species to species. Extending out from a central axis are microsporophylls (modified leaves). Under each microsporophyll is one or several microsporangia (pollen sacs).

Conifer cones and their seeds have been used for lots of different purposes. They are often used for decorations. Some seeds, for example, the seeds of pinyon pines, are used in prepared foods and baking. 


</doc>
<doc id="43787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43787" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 4">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 4

This is a copy of old messages from . They were moved here on December 2, 2006.

Do we have one? I have been going through and translating English into simpl english on an excel sheet. (Kind of reminds me of NewSpeak)

The will begin soon for the Wikimedia Board of Trustees.

Here's the timeline:

Candidate entries:


Voting:


Voting is via . For more info see . - 20:44, 26 July 2006 (UTC)

We now have 10 000 articles! Congratulations to everyone that has helped us get to this stage.

I've had us moved up a category on the multi-language portal (, so I think we are going to get a lot more traffic now. - 20:11, 27 July 2006 (UTC)

There are many pages which have the word "alot" rather than "a lot". Should these be changed or are they allowed in Simple English? 09:48, 1 August 2006 (UTC)

Go ahad change it this is what the world is all about.

"Alot" is not a word in the dictionary. It is in common use. "A lot" has an EXTREMELY different meaning from "alot" however. "A lot" means a parcel of land. Any other use of "a lot" is just as incorrect as alot. "Alot" as it is used in common English would probably be best changed to "many." 01:53, 20 September 2006 (UTC)

Hello,
I placed a request on to get a bot flag for , my bot which adds interwiki-links on currently more than 25 wikipedia's, among which en, fr, de, es, it, pt, sv, and nl, i.e. alle major West-European languages, and a lot of small ones. I ran the bot for a while some time ago, it's changes can be seen on . I would like to ask the community for approval for a bot flag. 21:08, 31 July 2006 (UTC) 

Hello all,

If there is an article about something, and that there are multiple names for the thing the article is about, those less common names should be linked (with REDIRECT) to the more common term. Just stubled upon Orkney (after writing Orkney Islands) and Shetland (after writing Shetlands). 

Would be good if we could avoid such things in the future -- 18:20, 6 August 2006 (UTC)

Hello all,
I copied the <nowiki></nowiki> template form the English wikipedia, since it may be useful to prevent edit conflicts. Since this has not been discussed, I commented out the official policy flags and the categories at the bottom. Unfortunately, the template refers to text that is not there (yet), so please help me rewrite the inuse template to not refer to this text.

Should editing help (and generally help pages) not link to the English wp, if they are not there in the simple one? 

-- 12:28, 19 August 2006 (UTC)

If I were not a native english speaker, what I would really like from a SE Wikibook or Wikipedia article would be to be able to look up any word I don't know without having to navigate away from the article I'm reading. What I've noticed in SE Wikipedia is that links get created for terms that need explanation. That's great. But unless a full article is written, people get upset that a stub has been created. The reader loses out because there is a term that needs explanation that has none. 

I have seen the suggestion of putting alternate words or definitions in parentheses, but that doesn't take advantage of our database. Here's what I'd like to see: Could a window be put inside SE Wikibooks and/or SE Wikipedia for people to access SE Wiktionary definitions? -- 14:27, 19 August 2006 (UTC)

An IP has made hundreds of year categories (like 1347) with just one article in, the article of the year. It created a template with just the word 'category' in it, so I am assuming this was meant as disruption. Am I right that we don't need them and they should be deleted? - 23:21, 21 August 2006 (UTC)

As many of you probably feel, the text in the current logo is not anti-aliased and is in need of repair to give the Simple English Wikipedia a more professional and welcoming look. I've created two draft proposals for a new logo.

The first proposal builds on a design proposed by Eloquence when the current logo was put in place, while the second uses the current format albeit with a different font. Both have been rasterized from the best quality sources I could find on Meta.

I'd like to know what everyone feels about this, and if anybody has better ideas, I'd be happy to incorporate them. Cheers, 18:00, 26 August 2006 (UTC)




Jimbo Wales spoke to me and he said he likes the second one. But both were nice, as he claimed.
-- 12:48, 30 August 2006 (UTC)

I've made a third variation per Netoholic's suggestion. I've also uploaded new versions of the two previous proposals, using a new globe with the diacritics that were missing. - 09:33, 10 September 2006 (UTC)

English Wikipedia has a collaboration of the week and it is very useful to them. I was thinking, maybe we could make a similar system for this Wikipedia. It would give us the ability to concentrate on the core topics and hopefully we would be able to get a lot of core articles to Very Good status (52 a year!). Once we have this going it would demonstrate the quality of articles this Wikipedia can achieve. || 01:34, 3 September 2006 (UTC)


I see loads of articles that use "don't" instead of "do not" or "they're" instead of "they are". This is even encouraged in the Simple English guide and I can't imagine why you people are using it. Most languages are taught formally on paper - words like "they're" only appear in written speech. 

I would suggest running a bot to fix these, but I'd be afraid of impacting titles and quotes instead of just the prose. -- 17:53, 6 September 2006 (UTC)

I am an avid Madonna follower and get a lot of information from Wikipedia. I understand that anyone can go in and change a sales figure for example. I am referring to her hit single Hung Up. It was number one if 41 countries, that so far is undisputed. The sales figure has shown about the 8.6 to 8.9 million copy range which seems right. I go in today and it shows 5 million which there is no way it undersold her single for Sorry. In fact, I will say that Hung Up, since it set hit records world wide would be her most successful selling single. I'm just bringing this to your attention because someone is messing with the page. Whoever has the actual fact, please put it up and block any further changes.

All schools across the county of Lancashire in the UK have been unable to access Simple for several weeks now, due to Simple being blocked in their content filtering system. I've contacted the admininstrator of the system, and we are now on their allow list, which I know will help out at least 3 of our contributors, and hopefully a few more students that need us for reference. Everyone will have access from tomorrow.

However, this does have a downside. We did have a bit of vandalism from school IPs in Lancashire operated by CLEO. I think I've managed to label every CLEO IP on it's talk page, but if other administrators find one causing trouble, please only block anonymous users, and try and keep blocks to 24 hours at a time. - 16:49, 11 September 2006 (UTC)

I thought the best way to get some of the core articles off their feet would be to have a similar system to English Wikipedia's Article Creation and Improvement Drive. So I'd like to announce Simple English Wikipedia's ! I've created this here, and I hope that it can find it's feet pretty quickly so we can get some really good contributions to articles through it. Feel free to discuss changes on the project talk page, and hopefully I'll see you all there. - - 23:10, 11 September 2006 (UTC)

Hi, just a reminder that there is an updated version of a third proposal in the #New logo section above. At the moment the majority of people seem to like the second version; please tell us what you think of the third version. Thanks, 15:48, 18 September 2006 (UTC)

I often find myself jumping between WikiTravel, WikiSource, Wikipedia, etc since an entry in one can be useful in the other, with some tweeking. Could the the big wikis get together and have a shared username system?

Hello,

my question is short "Why arne#t there any protals in the simple:english" i would love to begin one and the other. mfg ---- · · 23:15, 20 September 2006 (UTC)

Hi! I'm new to Simple English Wikipedia. Does "popups" exist in this wiki? (See Popups)

-- 02:27, 21 September 2006 (UTC)

Dear users.

the simple.pedia has now over 11,000 articles, next step is 12,000 so let´s go work!

mfg --- · · 22:13, 24 September 2006 (UTC)

I can't figure it out anywhere, and the original Wikipedia's article is far too long. I simply don't have the time to learn how to play the game by reading such a long article.

Therefore, can someone make a Sudoku article here, please? I'd like to know how to play it quick-and-easy. -- 05:30, 25 September 2006 (UTC)

I've started categorizing templates in subcategories of , as they are done on the English Wikipedia and (I suspect) a lot of other wikis. This is important because although we only have a small number of templates today, the number grows every day, making remembering the names of all the templates difficult or impossible. Also, tomorrow's users won't necessarily know all these templates, so I think it's crucial that we begin this categorization process now. There are still some things to decide (e.g., Do we need a subcategory for all the various types of infoboxes, or will a simple "Category:Infoboxes" suffice?) For now, I've created a list of uncategorized templates at from the toolserver, so please start categorizing templates if you have time :) Cheers, 17:11, 25 September 2006 (UTC)

There are currently "nine" vandalism warning templates (not including the block or advert tempates). Of these templates, most are very similar, thus some need to either be merged, redirected, or deleted. Any thoughts on this? --Φ 17:45, 28 September 2006 (UTC)

The Simple wiki currently has over 11,000 articles, so isn't it about time that we have some sort of featured article process?--Φ 17:50, 28 September 2006 (UTC)

To help advertise the existence of the Simple Wikipedia, we could add a link on the default welcome templates used by the main English Wikipedia. After all, if one has enough knowledge of English to edit the main Wikipedia, then one should also be able to edit the simple Wikipedia as well. Any thoughts on this?--Φ 15:18, 29 September 2006 (UTC)

For whatever reason, I can't access #simple-wikipedia IRC from the links posted around the site. The client I use for IRC, called , requires two things to sign on to IRC: a Server Alias, and a number in the form of "irc.trillian.com::6667". Any help in getting these two values would be much appreciated. Thanks. / 02:17, 30 September 2006 (UTC)

I would like to initiate a vote to choose our new logo, as discussed above at #New logo. Please leave your signature under a heading here if you support that proposal. The vote will run for one week, until 14:30, 7 October 2006 (UTC). Please vote even if you have commented in the section above. Thank you, 14:30, 30 September 2006 (UTC)

Please be aware of w:WP:ANI#Editor_who_self-indentifies_as_14_with_massive_amounts_of_personal_data. Thanks, 08:14, 2 October 2006 (UTC)



I'm on Wikipedia as SBHarris, and just discovered Simple English Wikipedia. Kick me if this has been suggested someplace else, but it occurs to me that what Simple English Wikipedia needs, is a lot of robotic flagging of articles to see which of their component words are part of the Basic English 850, or 1500, or derivatives thereof (a much longer list). The output might give words in three different colors, for example. 

It would be most useful if a user had some way of running the `bot repetitively on an article, while editing it. The best place for the bot to run in the background, would obviously be to have it run every time the user did a "show preview." Results would come up very much like the "linked" or "unlinked" colors now used for THOSE purposes.

For this reason, such a "bot" would really ideally be part of the mediawiki software that runs this place. But anything would help.

Without a lot of experience, it's quite difficult for the average native English speaker to tell if words below a certain complexity are part of the BE 850 or 1500. However, with these things automatically flagged by bot, it IS easy even for inexperienced people to spot target words outside basic English, and then to make a decision if there is some shorter and more basic replacement that works as well, or if the word needs to stand "as is."

Won't one of your considerate 'bot makers (or you software mogels who did the original programming for this Version) consider working on this? It really would change "everything" here.

Simple English is eerily reminiscent of Newspeak, of George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty Four" - ""

I just came across Simple English Wikipedia from an interwiki link. And I just want to say I think it is wonderful that such a thing exists. English is one of the hardest of the world's major languages to learn, and this is, hopefully and theoretically, a wonderful way for people to practice. Now if only there were a Simple Japanese Wikipedia... 10:25, 5 October 2006 (UTC).

See . 14:55, 5 October 2006 (UTC)

I am an English teacher, and new to Wikipedia. Simple Wikipedia is wonderful. But I suggest you make a prominent suggestion to contributors who are English learners to identify themselves as learners. People use this site to learn English, but there are several articles I have seen written in very poor English, by people who are obviously foreigners. I will correct what I see, but I won't be able to do much. I suggest a prominent hint to slow down the rate at which bad English is put before unsuspecting learners. And English teachers, tell your students to let you correct their work! donthegrammarian 13 11 2006

Hi. I'm mainly a enWiki editor, but was thinking that simple might benefit from something like . Does anybody have any input on this? Is there already a similar project here? I'd be willing to do quite a few recordings for simple. Cheers! -- 16:09, 5 October 2006 (UTC)

I know that the Simple English Wikipedia was created to help people learn English. However, it seems that the only measure of "simplicity" that we use here now is how complicated the words are. English grammar can be extremely difficult to understand (even for a native speaker like me). So, should Simple English have simple(r) grammar and sentence structure as well? / 13:59, 6 October 2006 (UTC)

What is the basis of the current vogue of referring to Richard I of England as Richard Lion Heart rather than the older Richard the Lionhearted. As a translation of Richard Coeur-de-Lion, it seems a petty distinction. Enlighten me! Thanks 16:01, 7 October 2006 (UTC)

Hello,

Everyone who wants to hep to increase the quality of our articles can now use the category, to watch every {stub} article. mfg --- · · 15:46, 8 October 2006 (UTC)

Hello,

I want to open the simple:wikinews, but first i wanted to ask you if there is any interest for such a project. mfg ---- · · 19:27, 8 October 2006 (UTC)

While I love the game description here in Simple English, it is hardly accurate. Perhaps it could be left in as a variation on the game's real rules, but for now I will have to go elsewhere to learn how to play ... Go Fish

There has been a CheckUser request to check users Tangotango and Geeksluvpi. I wanted to announce, that neither Tangotango, nor Geeksluvpi have been using any sockpuppets on the Simple Wikipedia, nor are they sockpuppets of themselves.

And, uh... That's all. Thank you for your attention. 10:00, 11 October 2006 (UTC)
I've created a policy proposal. Any thoughts and/or suggestions?--Φ 15:42, 12 October 2006 (UTC)

Instead of simply deleting old RfD nominations, should we archive them? After all, this way it would be easier to keep track of what the previous consensus for an article is when it is nominated for deletion a second time.--Φ 20:41, 12 October 2006 (UTC)

The "one Laptop per child" project have a page on their wiki proposing the dretion of an encyclopedia for distribution with their laptop. .

The English Wikipedia has a page discussing this too.

These pages propose the creation of an encyclopedia based on the Simple English Wikipedia.

I would like to help with such a project. What can I do? Is anything happening here yet? Is there a page here for discussing this? 20:29, 15 October 2006 (UTC)

I have started an about Netoholic. Your comments are obviously very important. - 23:02, 15 October 2006 (UTC)

There are not many simple english wikipedia articles compared to those for english wikipedia. It makes it harder for the reader to understand or to get information to what they are looking for in a simplier form. 

Hello, I just noticed that Record is a disambiguation page for several different kinds of records. However, none of the pages it refers to, exist. Are we really sure this is a good way to do things here, or should we start by creating one or two of those record pages first, and only then create the disambiguation? - just thoughts -- 12:44, 20 October 2006 (UTC)

This seems very unlikely. Does anyone know what is causing this bug? 

I am in the process of making my own wikipedia bot. However, I have a sinking feeling that it is going to cause total chaos and destruction if I test it here. Is there a place I can go (doesn't have to be on simple wikipedia) where I can test my bot without causing any major damage? Thanks. / 22:21, 24 October 2006 (UTC)

Some sort of bug in there, apparently. It shows pages which haven't been created at all...-- 04:26, 25 October 2006 (UTC)

Ok, what is the policy for playing games in the Coffee Lounge? Have we even had a discussion concerning the topic? (And if there has been, can somebody tell me where?) 21:36, 27 October 2006 (UTC)

As a non-native English speaker I find it very offending that people here assume we don't know a simple word like "edit". Umh, hello? We're not stupid! ばか外人・・・ -- 19:58, 28 October 2006 (UTC)

It is no slur against you or any individual. The point is to make these pages as simple as possible so that as many people as possible can understand them. Did you look at the Basic English vocabulary of 850 words? That is what people are aiming for when they try to write these articles in simple English. No one is saying you personally are stupid. -- 02:36, 9 November 2006 (UTC)

Published by the Wikimania 2007 Taipei Team, "Wikimania 2007 Team Bulletin" provides the latest news of the Team's organizing work to everyone who is interested in Wikimania; it also gives the Team chances to announce calls for help/participation, so assistance in human and other resources can be sought in a wider range. "Team Bulletin" is published at the official website of Wikimania 2007 and released to the public domain. Issue 1 and Issue 2 has already published.-- 02:14, 29 October 2006 (UTC)

Academic Challenger has blocked me, saying that FIGON has been using my IP address. I do not know enough about your system to be able to challenge that allegation. I'm not a computer genius, not even close, but I should be able to follow the directions about asking to be unblocked. I've spent more than 30 minutes trying to contact Academic Challenger, and cannot, and that's all the time I'm willing to give on a wild goosechase. I've contributed a certain amount of knowledge so far, and I do resent being blocked and unable to get unblocked without spending hours. So, I give up, and concede victory to the person calling himself/herself Academic Challenger.
Marsha Huie, law professor

I try to aim at having my articles written in Basic English with the word list of 850 words. However, when comparing two of these word lists, I notice that they are not the same. For example, the word list here includes the words "please" and "pleasure" but the word list here does not include the words "please" and "pleasure". What am I missing? -- 17:47, 8 November 2006 (UTC)

I still do not understand. Is the word "please" part of the list of 850 Basic English words or not? Or is it true that the vertical alphabetical list only includes those words in the list of 850 with their own articles? -- 20:21, 8 November 2006 (UTC)

We have a library of 200 pictures for some of the 850 words in Basic English here. Are we allowed to use these pictures in our articles?-- 20:24, 8 November 2006 (UTC)

Now that the simple english wiktionary is off its vote for deletion and has over 1,000 entries, I think we should begin to begin to weave the projects together. Instead of defining the BE850 articles here, it would be easier (and personally, more effective) to define them all on wiktionary. Also, about half of the BE850 entries are done there anyway. For example, we could change the "wiktionary has an entry on this..." so that it links to SE wiktionary instead of english. I would gladly spearhead this if anybody wants to try. 02:15, 9 November 2006 (UTC)

 has been put on a on Meta. Your commments on this issue are needed.-- 03:21, 9 November 2006 (UTC)

I've recently asked Netoholic whether this WP is kid-friendly or not. Knowing that our target readers include children, I thought this WP would already be and that I would be directed to a page regarding it. But he replied that right now, Simple WP is not yet kid-friendly and that there is no official policy or guideline making it such.
So the question is, should Simple WP become kid-friendly? Or should it follow the steps of its EN counterpart of being uncensored? 06:23, 9 November 2006 (UTC)

Hello, SimpleWP may serve as a guide on what to do in situations where there is little or no time to react (that is to say: emergencies). I have tried to put a what to do section on medical emergency. This is largely based on the enlgish WP. I have now written a short stub on Resuscitation (what EnWP has as . There are several issues though: 
Therefore, the basic question is, what to do. Do we drop all such info, do we centralise it in simple wikibooks on the subject, or should we leave the situation as is? -- 17:30, 12 November 2006 (UTC)

On page a vote is being held to see if there is consensus on simple.wikipedia to keep o to remove as bureaucrat. Other administrators can put their own candidature as well. -- 18:25, 12 November 2006 (UTC)

We've reached another milestone, 12,000 articles! Great job everyone, and keep up the good work.--Φ 10:50, 16 November 2006 (UTC)

I think we should start some sort of outreach towards schools. We already have a system for schools to follow (), a and a . I think we need a way of letting people know we're here. Any ideas? - 12:45, 16 November 2006 (UTC)

What should be done with things like Car rental? These pages are clearly just copies and pastes of the content from the English Wikipedia, with no simplification and no changes to show that it's taken from there. That makes it a violation of the GFDL because it's not attributing the true authors at enwiki. Should these be deleted and rewritten in a way that fits with policy? Just simplified and a link given to enwiki saying that the information came from there? Should a message be sent to the creator telling them why it's bad to do this? -- 05:35, 20 November 2006 (UTC)

I doubt if we have a book for this. Do let me know if you find one.-- 08:06, 20 November 2006 (UTC)

Hi does someone have a good source for old English sayings?-- 14:39, 23 November 2006 (UTC)

This is probably a dumb question, but I may as well ask it anyway. Is this Wikipedia censored? 16:52, 25 November 2006 (UTC)

I couldn't find any pages for getting administrators' attention, so I'm just putting this here. Is there a reason why talk is capitalised in ? 17:28, 25 November 2006 (UTC)

Hello! I am new to the Simple English Wikipedia, but I write and fix things a lot on the regular English Wikipedia with the . I think should have a <nowiki></nowiki> tag on it, but I wanted to ask here first. Thanks, - 22:59, 25 November 2006 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="43788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43788" title="Category:Cities in Mexico">
Category:Cities in Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="43790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43790" title="Category:Cities by country">
Category:Cities by country


</doc>
<doc id="43792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43792" title="Category:Cities in Europe">
Category:Cities in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="43793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43793" title="Category:Cities in Asia">
Category:Cities in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="43794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43794" title="Category:Cities in South America">
Category:Cities in South America


</doc>
<doc id="43796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43796" title="Spike Spiegel">
Spike Spiegel

Spike Spiegel is the main character in the Japanese anime television show, Cowboy Bebop. He is voiced by Koichi Yamadera in the Japanese version and Steven Blum in the English version.


</doc>
<doc id="43797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43797" title="Jet Black">
Jet Black

Jet Black is a main character in the Japanese anime television show, Cowboy Bebop. He is voiced by Unsho Ishizuka in the Japanese version and Beau Billingslea in the English version.


</doc>
<doc id="43798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43798" title="Faye Valentine">
Faye Valentine

Faye Valentine is the main female character in the Japanese anime television show, Cowboy Bebop. She is voiced by Megumi Hayashibara in the Japanese version and Wendee Lee in the English version.


</doc>
<doc id="43799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43799" title="Edward Wong Hau Pepelu Tivrusky IV">
Edward Wong Hau Pepelu Tivrusky IV

Edward is a main character in the Japanese anime television show, Cowboy Bebop. She is a female character. She is voiced by Aoi Tada in the Japanese version and Melissa Fahn in the English . She likes to hack into computers, and walk on her hands. She is described as "Like a cat out of control." by director Shinichirō Watanabe.


</doc>
<doc id="43800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43800" title="Ein">
Ein

Ein or EIN can have different meanings:






</doc>
<doc id="43802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43802" title="Julia (anime)">
Julia (anime)

Julia is a character in the Japanese anime television show, Cowboy Bebop. She is Spike's love interest. She is voiced by Gara Takashima in the Japanese version and Mary Elizabeth McGlynn in the English version.


</doc>
<doc id="43803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43803" title="Punch and Judy">
Punch and Judy

Punch and Judy is a very popular puppet show which children in Britain love to watch. It is traditionally performed at the seaside in a small booth which can easily be transported. The characters are all glove puppets. The story is told by a man who calls himself “The Professor”. He cannot be seen, but he wears the puppets on his hand like gloves and makes them move. 

Punch wears a jester's motley. He is hunchbacked and his hooked nose almost meets his curved chin. He has a big stick and hits the other characters with his stick, saying "That's the way to do it!". He speaks in a funny way called a "swazzle". There is also a baby, a crocodile, a policeman and a string of sausages. The simple kind of humour used is called “slapstick”.

The Punch and Judy show has its origins in the 16th century Italian commedia dell'arte. This sort of comedy always had the same people in the stories (“stock characters”). The figure of Punch comes from the stock character of Pulcinella, called "Punchinello" in English. Punch's wife was originally "Joan".

May 9, 1662 is said by 'Professors' to be Punch's UK birthday, for that was the first known date on which the figure who later became Mr. Punch was seen in Britain. The diarist Samuel Pepys saw a puppet show using an early version of the Punch character near St. Paul's Church in London's Covent Garden.
The British show developed into "Punch and Judy". In other countries the stories developed differently. In Germany, Punch is called "Kasper" and Judy is "Grete". The characters date back to the 18th century in German-speaking countries. In The Netherlands Punch is called "Jan Klaassen" and Judy is "Katrijn"; in Denmark "Mester Jackel"; in Italy "Pulcinella" (with "Teresina" as the female part); in Russia "Petruschka"; in Romania "Vasilache "; and in France "Polichinelle".


</doc>
<doc id="43804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43804" title="Category:1662 births">
Category:1662 births


</doc>
<doc id="43805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43805" title="Category:Cowboy Bebop">
Category:Cowboy Bebop


</doc>
<doc id="43809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43809" title="Category:Cities in New York">
Category:Cities in New York


</doc>
<doc id="43810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43810" title="Category:Cities in Texas">
Category:Cities in Texas


</doc>
<doc id="43811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43811" title="Category:Cities in California">
Category:Cities in California


</doc>
<doc id="43813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43813" title="Category:Cities in Illinois">
Category:Cities in Illinois


</doc>
<doc id="43814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43814" title="Category:Cities in Ohio">
Category:Cities in Ohio


</doc>
<doc id="43816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43816" title="Category:Cities in Michigan">
Category:Cities in Michigan


</doc>
<doc id="43818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43818" title="Category:United States capital cities">
Category:United States capital cities


</doc>
<doc id="43820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43820" title="Boomerang (TV channel)">
Boomerang (TV channel)

Boomerang is the name of at least four television networks owned by Cartoon Network. Boomerang was one of the two actual spin-offs of Cartoon Network, showing classic animated cartoons and animated television series from the Warner Bros., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, and Hanna-Barbera archives.

Formerly a segment of programming within the Cartoon Network, the channel was launched at the end of the 20th century and introduced to satellite in April 1, 2000.



</doc>
<doc id="43823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43823" title="Boomerang">
Boomerang

A boomerang is a flying tool that is best known for its ability to return to the thrower. It used to be made of wood, but most of the modern boomerangs are made of other materials.

Most people know that Australian Aborigines used boomerangs for hunting. But the oldest boomerang was found in a cave in Poland and is more than 20,000 (twenty thousand) years old. This kind of boomerang does not return to the thrower, but it can fly longer distances and more stably than other things which can be thrown. These days (returning) boomerangs are usually used for recreation. 

Most of the boomerangs do not have the classical "L"-shape. The modern boomerang is special in that it will return to the one who threw it, if it is thrown correctly. However, some boomerangs do not return because their wings do not have the right profile. Most of the boomerangs are made for right-handed use. Left-handed people have to use other boomerangs that are mirror-inverted, or have to throw with their right hand. 

A boomerang is not thrown like a frisbee. It has to be thrown almost vertically, with an inclination of about 10–20 degrees and with a lot of rotation (spin). When facing the wind, throw with an angle of 30–45 degrees to the right (left-handed: to the left) of the wind. Be sure to choose a field that is big enough. Watch out for passers-by, and do not throw when people are standing in the range of the boomerang. See also the link provided in the section below.

There are a lot of boomerang clubs in many countries all over the world. These clubs organise workshops and tournaments. The best boomerang-throwers come from Australia, France, Germany, Japan, Switzerland and the United States of America. A few years ago, the International Federation of Boomerang Associations (IFBA) was founded to help to spread knowledge about boomerangs.



</doc>
<doc id="43824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43824" title="Category:Cities in Florida">
Category:Cities in Florida


</doc>
<doc id="43826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43826" title="Category:Cities in Pennsylvania">
Category:Cities in Pennsylvania


</doc>
<doc id="43829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43829" title="Niflheim">
Niflheim

Niflheim is the world of frost and cold of Norse Mythology. Frost Giants live there. The river Hvergelmir also is there. Yggdrasil has one of its roots in the spring of the river. The serpent Nidhogg gnaws at this root.

Niflheim is ruled by Hel, the daughter of Loki and the Giantess Angrboda.


</doc>
<doc id="43830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43830" title="Baldur">
Baldur

Baldur (Baldr, Balder) is Odin's second son. He is the god of summer sun, light, and radiance. His twin brother is the blind god of darkness, Hodhr. His wife is called Nanna. They have a son, called Forseti, god of justice. Baldur also has a ship, which is the largest ship ever built. It is called Hringhorni. His hall is called Breidlabik.
Based on the Merseburg charms, his germanic name may have been Phol. 

Baldur once had a nightmare that he would be killed. His mother, Frigg, made all the things on Earth vow not to hurt him. The mistletoe did not vow, however, and Frigg considered it to be so inimportant that she did not mind. Loki found out that the mistletoe had not vowed, made a spear out of mistletoes, and tricked Hodhr to kill Baldur with it. The death of Baldur is the start of Ragnarok. Many gods and goddesses came to his funeral. His wife Nana also died of sadness. His father, Odin, placed the golden ring Draupnir on Baldur, but he later sent the ring back from Hell. This ring somehow came to Freyr's hand.

After Ragnarok and the death of Odin, Baldur and Hodhr came back to heaven, and they rule in place of their father.


</doc>
<doc id="43843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43843" title="Cell (disambiguation)">
Cell (disambiguation)

A cell can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="43853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43853" title="Prophecy">
Prophecy

A prophecy is a claim of what the future will be like, which is not based on any ordinary source of information. In some ways, prophecies are similar to religion. Not all people believe in prophecy. People that do think they come from God or a God. They are often hard to understand and need interpretation. Very often, they concern one very specific event. People who make prophecies are called prophets. In Ancient Greece, people who made prophecies were called oracles, most notably the Oracle of Delphi. Since then, people like Nostradamus have made prophecies. 

To prophesy is to make a prophecy. The two words are spelled differently and pronounced differently. "Prophesy" is a verb, and "prophecy" is a noun.


</doc>
<doc id="43855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43855" title="Vicious (Anime)">
Vicious (Anime)

Vicious is a villain character in the Japanese anime television show, Cowboy Bebop. He is voiced by Norio Wakamoto in the Japanese version and Skip Stellrecht in the English.


</doc>
<doc id="43866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43866" title="Anatotitan">
Anatotitan

Anatotitan (which means "duck titan") was a type of dinosaur called a hadrosaur. It did not have a crest unlike its later relative, Parasaurolophus. An Anatotitan grows to be 12 meters long. Its fossils have been found in South Dakota and Montana. One of the skulls found measured nearly 1.2 meters long. The "duckbill" part of its muzzle is almost as wide as its head, which makes it larger than any another hadrosaur. There are two species of Anatotitan, "A. copei" and "A. longiceps".

Anatotitan was first discovered in 1882 by paleontologist Edward Drinker Cope and was named "Trachodon mirabilis". Another hadrosaur discovered in 1892 was named "Claosaurus annectens" by Othniel Charles Marsh. In 1942, two paleontologists decided that C. annectens belonged in its own genus, called "Annatosaurus", and renamed C. annectens "A. annectens". T. mirabilis was renamed A. copei. Many paleontologists now think Annatosaurus is actually Edmontosaurus, while others think it belongs in another genus called Anatotitan.

Anatotitan was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" and the television series "Walking with Dinosaurs".


</doc>
<doc id="43867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43867" title="Ornithomimus">
Ornithomimus

Ornithomimus was a dinosaur that could run fast. It usually ate meat.

"Ornithomimus" had three toes on each foot, it also had long arms and a long neck, but a small head. It also had claws on each hand and foot. It had no teeth and weak jaws.

It was 12 ft (3.5 meters) long, 7 feet (2.10 meters) high and weighed about 100-150 kg. It walked on two legs and looked slightly like an ostrich, except for its long tail. 



</doc>
<doc id="43873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43873" title="Book of Job">
Book of Job

The Book of Job (איוב) is the 18th book in the Hebrew Bible or Old Testament. The book of Job is poetry. 

The Bible says "In the land of Uz there lived a man whose name was Job. This man was blameless and upright; he feared God and shunned evil. 2 He had seven sons and three daughters, 3 and he owned seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen and five hundred donkeys, and had a large number of servants. He was the greatest man among all the people of the East." 
"5 When a period of feasting had run its course, Job would send and have them purified. Early in the morning he would sacrifice a burnt offering for each of them, thinking, "Perhaps my children have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. This was Job's regular custom."
The Bible also says that Job was a pious, rich, loyal and a man who loved God.

One day Satan and the Angels of God went to God. God tells Satan about his servant Job and how good he is. Satan says that the only reason why he is like that is because God was good to him and gave him sons and daughters and many animals. Satan asks if he can test Job and God lets him. God tells Satan not to kill Job.

The first test Satan did was to take away all of Job's animals, killing the servants that were with the animals, and killing all of Job's sons and daughters while they were eating together. Even though Satan did these things to Job, Job did not curse God like Satan wanted Job to do.

Satan and the Angels went to meet God again. Like before, God talked about how good his servant Job is. Satan says that Job will curse God if he makes Job sick, which he did. This is the last meeting with Satan, the Angels.

Satan afflicted sores all over Job's body. Job's wife told him to curse God and die. Job told her that if he said that, that would be foolish. Even though Job lost everything he had and suffered from painful sores all over his body, he did not sin against God by cursing him. Satan had failed in trying to make him sin. This is the final time Satan is mentioned in the Book of Job.

When Job's friends heard about the things that happened to him they went to comfort him. Most of the book tells about Job and his friends talking. The names of his friends are Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar. Towards the end of the book, Job's friends start to think that Job is not good because a lot of bad things are happening to him. Job keeps on saying that he is good but he starts to wonder if God really is good.

After God speaks to Job and his three friends. God gets very angry at two of Job's friends for thinking that Job was not a good man and for saying things about God they did not know about, and Job prays for his friends: God answers his prayer. God blesses Job because he did not curse Him. God gives him more than he had before.



</doc>
<doc id="43898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43898" title="Template:RfDx">
Template:RfDx


</doc>
<doc id="43899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43899" title="Abide with Me">
Abide with Me

Abide with Me is a religious song or hymn. It was written by Henry Lyte in 1847. The hymn was sung at the wedding of King George VI of the United Kingdom and the wedding of Queen Elizabeth II. The song is sung at the start of the FA Cup finals.

Abide with me; fast falls the eventide;
The darkness deepens; Lord with me abide.
When other helpers fail and comforts flee,
Help of the helpless, O abide with me.

Swift to its close ebbs out life’s little day;
Earth’s joys grow dim; its glories pass away;
Change and decay in all around I see;
O Thou who changest not, abide with me.

Not a brief glance I beg, a passing word;
But as Thou dwell’st with Thy disciples, Lord,
Familiar, condescending, patient, free.
Come not to sojourn, but abide with me.

Come not in terrors, as the King of kings,
But kind and good, with healing in Thy wings,
Tears for all woes, a heart for every plea—
Come, Friend of sinners, and thus bide with me.

Thou on my head in early youth didst smile;
And, though rebellious and perverse meanwhile,
Thou hast not left me, oft as I left Thee,
On to the close, O Lord, abide with me.

I need Thy presence every passing hour.
What but Thy grace can foil the tempter’s power?
Who, like Thyself, my guide and stay can be?
Through cloud and sunshine, Lord, abide with me.

I fear no foe, with Thee at hand to bless;
Ills have no weight, and tears no bitterness.
Where is death’s sting? Where, grave, thy victory?
I triumph still, if Thou abide with me.

Hold Thou Thy cross before my closing eyes;
Shine through the gloom and point me to the skies.
Heaven’s morning breaks, and earth’s vain shadows flee;
In life, in death, O Lord, abide with me.

Reste avec nous, Seigneur, le jour décline,
La nui s’approche et nous menace tous;
Nous implorons ta présence divine:
Reste avec nous, Seigneur, reste avec nous!

En toi nos coeurs ont salué leur Maître,
En toi notre âme a trouvé son époux;
A ta lumière elle se rent renaître:
Reste avec nous, Seigneur, reste avec nous!

Les vains bonheurs de ce monde infidèle
N’enfantent rien que regrets ou dégoûts;
Nous avons soif d’une joie éternelle:
Reste avec nous, Seigneur, reste avec nous!

Dans nos combat si ta main nous délaisse,
Satan vainqueur nous tiendra sous ses coups;
Que ta puissance arme notre faiblesse:
Reste avec nous, Seigneur, reste avec nous!

Sous ton regard la joie est sainte et bonne,
Près de ton coeur les pleurs même sont doux,
Soit que ta main nous frappe ou nous couronne,
Reste avec nous, Seigneur, reste avec nous!

Et quand, au bout de pèlerinage,
Nous partirons pour le grand rendezvous,
Pour nous guider dans ce dernier passage,
Reste avec nous, Seigneur, reste avec nous!

Ver tú mær hjá, nú sólin fór um sýn,
og dagur aftnar, kæri Harri mín!
Tá onnur hjálp og uggan fellur frá,
hjálp teirra hjálparleysu, ver mær hjá!

Skjótt endar henda stutta jarðarstund,
tá fánar dýrdin øll við heimsins sund.
Alt ridlar leyst, sum eyga mítt kann sjá,
o, tú, sum broytist ei, ver tú mær hjá!

Ber ei sum drottin ræðslu í mítt sinn,
men brosa blíðan, kín mær tár av kinn!
Lat meg hjá tær, við djúpu sálartrá,
mær finna ugga, Guð mín, ver mær hjá!

Mær tørvar tína hjálp hvønn lívsins dag.
Bert náði tín kann doyva fjandans slag.
Hvør er sum tú? í ódn og sólskinsbrá,
mín stavur og mín stuðul, ver mær hjá!

Við tær í fylgi aldri óttist eg.
í sorg og sjúku ber tað trygdarveg.
á gravarskugga, deyða, sum tú vá,
eg vinni sigur, um tú ert mær hjá.

Tá eygað sloknar, krossin vís tú mær,
lýs gjøgnum myrkrið mær í himnagarð!
Rým jarðarnátt—nú lýsing er at sjá!
í lív’ og deyða, Guð mín, ver mær hjá!

O Dio d’amor, deh, ascolta il mio pregar:
Rendimi intento tutto al Tuo Timor;
Per l’evangel desiro in Te abbondar
Di carità, di fé, di speme ognor.

O Dio d’amor, deh, ascolta il mio pregar:
La Tua parola scrivi nel mio cuor;
Altro non v’è che possa consolar;
Per essa sola sento in Te vigor.

O Dio d’amor, deh, ascolta il mio pregar:
Fammi secondo tutto il Tuo voler:
Con tutto il cuor, deh, fammi camminar
Ripieno di virtù nei Tuoi sentier.

O Dio d’amor, deh, ascolta il mio pregar:
Proseguirò conoscer Ti vieppiù…
D’ogni Tuo ben deh, fammi giubilar:
Nel nome Te lo chiedo di Gesù.

Habita em mim na dura tentação;
Senhor habita em mim na escuridão.
Quando os amigos de mim fugir,
Sozinho estou, Senhor vem me acudir.

Nós somos pó, mas estamos aqui;
Com alegria pra louvar a Ti;
Tudo não passa de ostentação;
Jesus não muda Sua criação.

Oh Senhor Jesus vem por mim olhar;
Certo estou que vou contigo andar,
File Senhor, liberdade sem fim.
Não quero perecer, habita em mim!

Com o Rei dos reis, na Luz viverei,
Pois em Suas asas seguro estarei,
De toda dor e toda aflição,
Jesus nos salva e muda o coração.

Eu era jovem; Tu por mim sorria;
Mas cruel e mau eu permanecia,
Jesus não me deixou até o fim,
E até chegar ao céu, habita em mim!

Todos os dias lado a lado andar.
Com Sua graça o mal afastar.
Quem senão Jesus pode nos guiar?
Só Ele pode a chuva e o sol criar!

Eu não receio nem o malfeitor;
Não tenho medo do perigo ou dor.
Jesus a morte Ele venceu, sim!
Jesus triunfou e habita em mim!

Senhor me ajude a carregar a cruz;
Brilha na sombra e mostre-me Sua Luz.
O amanhã em breve terá fim;
Vida ou morte Ele habita em mim!

Пребудь со мной! Уж свет сменился мглой.
Густеет тьма. Господь, пребудь со мной!
Когда лишусь опоры я земной,
Оплот бессильных, Ты пребудь со мной!

Так жизни день короткий утечет,
Померкнет все земное и пройдет.
Все песни счастья — только звук пустой. 
Друг неизменный, о, пребудь со мной.

Не царским обликом ко мне приди, 
Но с состраданьем нежным и любви.
Ты исцеление неси с собой,
Как солнца луч, таким пребудь со мной!

В Тебе нуждаюсь каждый час, мой Бог,
Чтоб искусителя Ты превозмог.
И в светлый час и облачной порой,
Руководя, храня, пребудь со мной!

Не страшен враг, коль Ты, Господь вблизи,
Скорбь не теснит, не знаю я тоски.
Где смерти жало? Ад, где ужас твой?
Бессильно все — лишь Ты пребудь со мной!

В предсмертный час на крест Свой укажи,
Звездою утренней средь тьмы гори,
Светлеет небо новою зарей,
И в жизни, в смерти Сам пребудь со мной.

夕陽西沉, 求主與我同居;
黑暗漸深, 求主與我同居;
求助無門, 安慰也無求處,
常助孤苦之神, 與我同居.

渺小浮生, 飄向生涯盡處
歡娛好景, 轉瞬都成過去;
變化無常, 環境何能留住?
懇求不變之神, 與我同居.

我深需主, 時刻需主眷顧,
除卻主恩, 尚有何法驅魔?
誰能如主, 時常導引扶持?
無論風雨晦明, 懇求同居.

有主降祥, 仇敵何需畏懼?
淚不辛酸, 病痛也無足慮;
墳墓威權, 鋒鋩今天何處?
我仍欣然得勝, 主若同居.

示我寶架. 雙眸垂閉之時,
照徹昏幽, 指我直上天衢;
陰翳飛逝, 欣看天光破曙,
無論天上人間, 懇求同居.



</doc>
<doc id="43900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43900" title="Hail Mary">
Hail Mary

Hail Mary is a Christian prayer to Mary, the mother of Jesus. Most of the text comes from the Gospel of Luke, though there were some additions in the 13th century. In the prayer, the person praying asks Mary to intercede for them with God.

The Hail Mary is used within Roman Catholicism as the basis of the Rosary. The prayer is also used by the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox as well as by many other groups within the Catholic tradition of Christianity including Anglicans, Independent Catholics, and Old Catholics. Some Protestant denominations also make use of the prayer. 

The prayer uses two passages from Saint Luke's Gospel: "Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with thee, blessed art thou amongst women" () and "Blessed art thou amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb" ()

In mid-thirteenth-century Western Europe the prayer was only three words and the added word "Mary" after the word "Hail". We know this from the writings of Saint Thomas Aquinas on the prayer.

The first of the two passages from Saint Luke's Gospel is the greeting of the Angel Gabriel to Mary, originally written in Koine Greek. The opening word of greeting, , "chaíre", here translated "Hail", really means "Rejoice", "Be glad". This was the normal greeting in the language in which Saint Luke's Gospel is written and is still spoken that way in Modern Greek. For this reason, both "Hail" and "Rejoice" are good English translations of the word.

The word , ("kecharitōménē"), here translated as "full of grace", lets there be different translations. Grammatically, the word is the feminine present perfect passive voice participle of the verb , "charitóō", which means "to show, or bestow with, grace" and, in the passive voice, "to have grace shown, or bestowed upon, one". The form of the verb is intensive, so we know the translation is "full of grace". 

The text also appears in the story of the annunciation from the apocryphal Infancy Gospel of Matthew, in chapter 9.

The Hail Mary prayer of the Eastern Orthodox Church and Eastern Catholic Churches is in the form: 

A different translation of the same text into English is:

To the Biblical texts this adds the opening invocation "Theotokos Virgin," the name "Mary" and the concluding "for you have borne the Saviour of our souls".

The article on Hail Mary in the Catholic Encyclopedia says that the Hail Mary was not used in this form before about 1050. Nevertheless, a later story attributes the current Hail Mary to Ildephonsus of Toledo who lived in the 7th century. According to the story, he used the angel's greeting only, without the later addition.

Saint Thomas Aquinas spoke of the name "Mary", indicating who was the "full of grace" person addressed, as the only word that had been added in the West even by the mid-thirteenth century to the Biblical verses of which the prayer was composed. But at about the same time the name "Jesus" was also added, to specify who was meant by the phrase "the fruit of thy womb". 

For this reason, the Western version of the prayer is not derived from the Greek version: even the earliest Western forms have no trace of the phrases "Mother of God and Virgin" and "for thou hast given birth to the Saviour of our souls", which are part of the Greek version. 

To the greeting and praise of Mary of which the prayer thus consisted, a petition "Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. Amen." was commonly added around the time of the Council of Trent. The Dutch Jesuit Petrus Canisius is credited with adding in1555 in his Catechism the sentence: 

Eleven years later, the sentence was included in the Catechism of the Council of Trent of 1566. The "Catechism of the Council of Trent" says that to the first part of the Hail Mary, by which "we render to God the highest praise and return Him most gracious thanks, because He has bestowed all His heavenly gifts on the most holy Virgin ... the Church of God has wisely added prayers and an invocation addressed to the most holy Mother of God ... we should earnestly implore her help and assistance; for that she possesses exalted merits with God, and that she is most desirous to assist us by her prayers, no one can doubt without impiety and wickedness."

The current Latin version is therefore as follows (the macrons are given for pronunciation only and do not occur in the Latin language):

For translations from the Latin into various languages, see Wikisource.

The Syriac Orthodox Church uses a version of the Hail Mary much closer to the current Western form than to the Greek version.

The prayer is said in the following manner:


In the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches, the prayer is very common in the Greek form indicated above, or in translations from it. Although it is not said quite as often as in the West, it is well known, oft-used, and appears in several canons of prayer. It is typically sung thrice at the end of Vespers during an All-Night Vigil, as well as occurring many times in the course of daily prayer.

There exist two variant versions in Church Slavonic:

The first is the older, and remains in use by the Old Believers as well as those who follow the Ruthenian recension (among them the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church and the Ruthenian Catholic Church). The second appeared in 1656 under the liturgical reforms of Patriarch Nikon of Moscow, and is in use by the Russian Orthodox Church, the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church).

The Hail Mary is the essential element of the Rosary, a prayer method in use especially among Latin Rite (Western) Catholics, and that appears in the East only among Latinised Ukrainian and Maronite Catholics. It consists of four sets of five Mysteries. These meditate upon events of Jesus' life during his childhood (Joyful Mysteries), public ministry (Luminous Mysteries), Passion (Sorrowful Mysteries), and from his Resurrection onwards (Glorious Mysteries). Each of these Mysteries is prayed as a decade (a unit of ten), consisting of one Our Father ("Pater Noster" or "The Lord's Prayer"), ten Hail Marys, and one 'Glory Be' ("Gloria Patri") (Doxology).

The Hail Mary is also the central part of the Angelus, a devotion generally recited thrice daily by many Catholics, as well as some Anglicans and Lutherans.

Anglo-Catholics also employ the Hail Mary in devotional practice. Traditional Anglo-Catholics use the prayer in much the same way as the Roman Catholics, including use of the Rosary and the recitation of the Angelus. Many Anglican churches contain statues of the Virgin Mary, and the faithful use devotional prayers including the Hail Mary. However there might be some variations in local usage, reflecting the differing theological leanings of the two bodies.

Many people have written music for the Hail Mary, or Ave Maria. Among the most famous settings is the version by Charles Gounod (1859), adding melody and words to Johann Sebastian Bach's first prelude from the Well-Tempered Clavier. Antonín Dvořák's version was composed in 1877. Another setting of Ave Maria was written by Giuseppe Verdi for his 1887 opera "Otello". Russian composer César Cui, who was raised Roman Catholic, set the text at least three times: as the "Ave Maria," op. 34, for 1 or 2 women's voices with piano or harmonium (1886), and as part of two of his operas: "Le Flibustier" (premiered 1894) and "Mateo Falcone" (1907). Settings also exist by Mozart, Byrd, Elgar, Verdi, Saint-Saens, Rossini, Brahms and Perosi as well as numerous versions by less well-known composers, such as J.B. Tresch.

In Slavonic, the text was also a popular subject for setting to music by Eastern European composers. These include Rachmaninov, Stravinsky, Bortniansky and several others.

This text was also very often set by composers in the Renaissance, including Jacques Arcadelt, Josquin Desprez, Orlando di Lasso, and Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina. Before the Council of Trent there were actually different versions of the text, so the earlier composers in the period sometimes set versions of the text different from the ones shown above. Josquin Desprez, for example, himself set more than one version of the Ave Maria. Here is an example of a text set by Josquin which begins with the first six words above, but continues with a poem in rhymed couplets:
<br clear="all">
Franz Schubert's "Ellens dritter Gesang" (D839, Op 52 no 6, 1825) is often misidentified as "Schubert's "Ave Maria"" because it opens with the greeting "Ave Maria" ("Hail Mary"), even though it is not a setting of the traditional Ave Maria prayer. The original text of Schubert's song is from Sir Walter Scott's "The Lady of the Lake" and was translated into German by Adam Storck. Adding to the confusion, the traditional Ave Maria prayer is often sung to Schubert's melody of "Ellens dritter Gesang"; and in Walt Disney's "Fantasia", the tune is used with yet another text beginning with the phrase.

Even though Protestant Christianity generally avoids any special veneration of Mary, access to the beautiful and culturally significant tradition of Marian music is made easier by replacement texts. These texts replace the words of the standard "Ave Maria," preserving word boundaries and syllable stresses, so that music written for the former text can be sung with the latter. An example is the Christ-centric "Ave Redemptor":

<br clear="all">



</doc>
<doc id="43901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43901" title="Ein (Anime)">
Ein (Anime)

Ein is the smart pet dog in the Japanese anime television show, "Cowboy Bebop". Ein is very smart because scientists did experiments on him. Ein cannot speak, but he seems to understand what people say. He also knows how to play the board game Go.


</doc>
<doc id="43902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43902" title="Template:RfD2">
Template:RfD2


</doc>
<doc id="43904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43904" title="Studio">
Studio

A studio is a place where an artist can work. Studios can be used for many things, such as making photos, movies, television shows, cartoons, or music. The word comes from the Latin word, "studium", which means to eagerly want something.

A music studio is a room or group of rooms that are used for practicing music. Most music studios have a piano and a mirror. 

A recording studio is used for recording music, speech, or other kinds of sound. Many recordings become works of art in themselves.


</doc>
<doc id="43907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43907" title="Electric Light Orchestra">
Electric Light Orchestra

The Electric Light Orchestra, also known as ELO, were a popular English rock band from the 1970s and early 1980s. Their leader was musician and songwriter Jeff Lynne. Lynne wrote and sang most of their songs. He also produced their recordings. Other members included Richard Tandy on keyboards, Bev Bevan on drums, Mike D'Albuquerque and later Kelly Groucutt on bass guitar. Hugh McDowell, Mik Kaminski, and Melvyn Gale played violin and cello. The orchestra's name is a joke on "electric light" and a "Light Orchestra" (an orchestra that plays light music).

The band began as a side project of another band, The Move, by musicians Roy Wood and Jeff Lynne. While The Move had added touches of classical music to their pop hits, Wood and Lynne wanted to blend rock music and classical music more closely. Move drummer Bevan joined their project. Wood played nearly all the non-rock instruments on their first album. They made the most of recording studio technology, including multitrack recording and overdubbing.

Their first album was titled "Electric Light Orchestra". It was released with that name in the United Kingdom. When the album was released in the United States, their American record label, United Artists, did not know the album was titled after the group. They phoned ELO's British label to ask for the title. When nobody answered, "No Answer" was written down. Mistaken later for the title, the album appeared in America as "No Answer". The band's first single was titled "10538 Overture". It became an FM radio favourite. In time, ELO's music became more popular than The Move's had been. The Move disbanded, and Electric Light Orchestra became a full-time group.

Roy Wood decided to leave ELO partway through the recording of the second album. He started another band called Wizzard. Jeff Lynne took over leadership, and McDowell, Kaminski and Gale joined. The album, "ELO 2", was finished and released, but was not as well liked as the first. A single on the album was a cover version of Chuck Berry's "Roll Over Beethoven". It added parts of many Beethoven compositions to Berry's song. It became another radio hit.

Their third album, "On the Third Day", included a rock interpretation of "In the Hall of the Mountain King". The album had another hit single, titled "Showdown". ELO began to tour the United States. They started with small audiences. They became more popular with time, and added theatrical touches to their shows. New contact microphones made it possible for the classical musicians to move around and even dance on stage, as pop musicians did. The audiences enjoyed watching them.

By their fourth album, "Eldorado", ELO had gone from overdubbing their small membership to recording with real orchestras. They had problems when they worked in their native England. British classical musicians usually kept more to union rules than to the job of making music. They sometimes walked out during recordings. This hurt the process of making their records, so ELO tried a studio called Musicland in Munich, Germany. They liked the way the studio worked, and the German musicians were more devoted. ELO used Musicland many more times.

Their next album, "Face the Music" (1975), yielded two hit singles, "Strange Magic" and "Evil Woman". ELO became even more popular. A compilation album, "Olé ELO", featured most of their early singles. Three songs from their 1976 album, "A New World Record", became worldwide hits. These were "Telephone Line", "Livin' Thing", and "Do Ya", which was a remake of a Move song.

ELO recorded a double album in 1977, "Out of the Blue", which included "Turn to Stone", "Sweet Talkin' Woman", and "Mr. Blue Sky", which also became hit records. The band toured worldwide, with a stage set that looked like a UFO, which opened to reveal the band performing inside. Their shows included lots of stage lighting, and laser effects.

Their next new album, "Discovery", did not appear until 1979. ELO's record label, Jet Records, changed distributors from United Artists to Columbia Records, and this was part of the delay. "Discovery" included two singles, "Shine a Little Love" and "Don't Bring Me Down". "Don't Bring Me Down" was the first ELO single to not include any classical instruments. Columbia issued a "Greatest Hits" album, which overlapped some of the "Olé ELO" songs with later ones.

ELO became less popular during the 1980s. They had fewer hits. They recorded the "Xanadu" soundtrack with singer Olivia Newton-John. They also released the albums "Time" (with the title song and "Hold On Tight" as singles) in 1981, "Secret Messages" (with "Stranger") in 1983, and finally "Balance of Power", which included "Calling America", in 1986. By this time the classical musicians had left. Lynne now was recording their parts with synthesizers or session players.

Jeff Lynne was now producing other recording artists, including The Everly Brothers, and stopped working with Electric Light Orchestra in 1986. Most of the remaining members, though, wanted to continue working together and regrouped, first as a band named OrKestra, then later as "ELO Part II". These lineups toured for years, playing ELO's old hits and releasing two albums of new material, while Lynne continued his producing career. Lynne also released a solo album, "Armchair Theatre", in 1990, and formed the Traveling Wilburys with former Beatle George Harrison.

Lynne recorded an album, "Zoom", in 2001, again using the ELO name, but with a new set of musicians. He made a handful of television appearances with the new lineup. They played both old and new songs. He also planned to tour with them. Interest in the band was not strong, though, and most of the shows were cancelled. 

Electric Light Orchestra's music had only a weak presence in popular culture from the mid-1980s until the early 2000s. Their blend of classical and rock music made their music hard to put in radio play lists. ELO's music has made a comeback in the 2000s through its use in movie soundtracks, and also in commercial jingles such as for Monster.



</doc>
<doc id="43911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43911" title="Vicious">
Vicious

The word vicious has several meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="43916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43916" title="Ash">
Ash

The term Ash can have different meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="43917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43917" title="Ash tree">
Ash tree

Ash trees are medium to large trees of the genus "fraxinus" of the family Oleaceae (Olive-tree like). The family contains between 45 and 65 species. Some of them are evergreen, but most are deciduous. They grow in most parts of the world. The seeds are commonly known as "keys" in English. They are a type of fruit known as a . Most of the ash species have light-green, oval shaped, leaves. If they are deciduous they may turn yellow before dropping, sometimes frost may cause them to drop while still green.

Ash wood is used to make various tools, handles, and bows. It also makes very good . Ash trees are also perfect material for old fashion shafts for bow and arrows.
In Norse Mythology, the World tree Yggdrasil is commonly thought to be an ash tree. The first man, Askr, was formed from an ash. The first woman was made from an alder. 


</doc>
<doc id="43918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43918" title="Ash Wednesday">
Ash Wednesday

In the Western Christian calendar, Ash Wednesday is the first day of Lent. It ends in a Carnival. It generally is 40 days before Easter. The date is different each year (because the date of Easter varies). Generally, it is between February 4 and March 10. In truth, there are 46 days between Ash Wednesday and Easter, but Sundays are not counted in this period. 

Those able to and willing to should fast voluntarily between Ash Wednesday and Easter. There are exceptions, though. Pregnant women, sick people, children, and the old usually don't have to. 

Ash Wednesday is a very important part of Lent.



</doc>
<doc id="43926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43926" title="Valkyrie">
Valkyrie

Valkyries (Old Norse: "Valkyrja" "Choosers of the Slain") are lesser goddesses in Norse Mythology. They serve the chief god Odin. Their task is to choose those who have died in the most heroic way in battle. The Valkyrie then carries the chosen one off to Valhalla. This chosen one would then be called einherjars. They would then be shared between Odin and Freyja. They would fight at Odin's side at Ragnarök, the battle at the end of the world. In Valhalla, the Valkyries would also serve drink and care for the well-being of the feasting warriors. 

The old Norse people thought that Valkyries rode giant wolves, and that they had black wings which corrospond to ravens; these two creatures both scavenge corpses on the battlefield symbolising death and destruction. With the spread of Christianity the idea of what a Valkyrie was like changed more and more to a Romantic description of a beautiful woman. 

Richard Wagner composed some operas, featuring Valkyries (German: "Walküren", singular: "Walküre"). These operas are "Die Walküre", "Siegfried", and "Götterdämmerung". They feature a story of a valkyrie Brünnhilde, her punishment for disobeying her father, and her falling in love with Siegfried. The music for the opening of Act Three of "Die Walküre" is very famous. It is called the "Ride of the Valkyries".



</doc>
<doc id="43929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43929" title="Template:Rejected">
Template:Rejected

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="43930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43930" title="Category:Wikipedia rejected ideas">
Category:Wikipedia rejected ideas


</doc>
<doc id="43932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43932" title="Zosterops">
Zosterops

Zosterops is a type of bird. There are many different species of Zosterops around the world.


</doc>
<doc id="43934" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43934" title="Dimorphodon">
Dimorphodon

Dimorphodon was a prehistoric flying pterosaur from the early Jurassic period. It had a big head, a small brain, a tall beak, and two types of teeth. Variation in teeth is rare in pterosaurs. 

Like "Rhamphorhynchus", "Dimorphodon" is only found in Jurassic strata. It was the first pterosaur found in England, by Mary Anning, in 1828.


</doc>
<doc id="43935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43935" title="Cryolophosaurus">
Cryolophosaurus

The name Cryolophosaurus means "cold crested lizard." The characteristic feature of this dinosaur is the large crest on the top of the skull, above the eyes. The nasal bones extend toward the back of the skull as ridges, and then join with the lacrimal bones to form a grooved crest which extends perpendicularly from the skull. Cryolophosaurus was discovered in the Jurassic Hanson Formation in the Transantarctic Mountains and represents the only theropod dinosaur to be found in Antarctica.

The dinosaur was discovered by Dr. William Hammer during a 1990-91 expedition. Dr. Hammer is a professor of geology at Augustana College in Rock Island, IL, where a cast of Cryolophosaurus currently resides. The find of this dinosaur was significant because it proves that the dinosaurs lived on all of the continents and that high latitude climates were tolerated by dinosaurs. Cryolophosaurus is also of significance because it represents the oldest known tetanuran from any continent- it is the only one from the Early Jurassic.


</doc>
<doc id="43938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43938" title="Coloborhynchus">
Coloborhynchus

Coloborhynchus was a pterosaur. It has been found in Lower Cretaceous rocks in England and Brazil. It is a similar genus to "Anhanguera" and "Ornithocheirus".

The type specimen of "Coloborhynchus" is known only from a partial upper jaw. It can only be distinguished from its relatives by its unique combination of tooth socket positions. In "Coloborhynchus", the two front teeth pointed forward and were higher on the jaw than the other teeth, while the next three pairs of teeth pointed to the sides. The final two pairs of teeth in this specimen point downward. Finally, a unique oval depression was located below the first pair of teeth.

The possible species "Coloborhynchus capito" is the largest toothed pterosaur known. A specimen from the Cambridge Greensand has a very large upper jaw tip which displays the typical teeth which distinguish "C. capito" from other species. The jaw tip is nearly 10 cm tall and 5.6 cm wide, with teeth up to 1.3 cm in base diameter. If the proportions of this specimen was the same as other known species of "Coloborhycnhus", the total skull length could have been up to 75 cm, leading to an estimated wingspan of .


</doc>
<doc id="43942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43942" title="Alder">
Alder

Alder is the common name for about 30 kinds of trees and shrubs of the Alnus genus. They are a part of the birch family ("Betulaceae"). Most of them are smaller in size. Leaves are mostly deciduous, only very few alders are evergreen. 

The best known species are the Black Alder, which can be seen throughout Europe. The largest is probably the Red Alder, native to North America. It reaches about 32-35 metres in height. The widespread Green Alder is a shrub, rarely more than 5m high. 

Alder is a preferred tree for bees, especially in spring. It is also used to make charcoal. 


</doc>
<doc id="43943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43943" title="Category:Unknown Dinosaurs">
Category:Unknown Dinosaurs


</doc>
<doc id="43945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43945" title="Futabasaurus">
Futabasaurus

Futabasaurus was a plesiosaur from the Upper Cretaceous. A complete skeleton of one has not been found. It is not known very well. Futabasaurus is also a name given to a meat eating dinosaur. It is different from the plesiosaur.


</doc>
<doc id="43946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43946" title="Ovum">
Ovum

An ovum (Latin: "egg", plural: ova) is the name for the haploid female reproductive cell, or gamete. Both animals and land plants (embryophytes) produce ova. 

Ova are made and released by a female's ovaries. At birth, a female has all of her eggs, and from puberty, she releases an egg once a month until none are left. This is called oogenesis. 

When the ovum is fertilised by a male's sperm, it becomes a zygote, which develops into a new organism. The ovum is fertilized inside the female body, and the embryo then develops inside the uterus, being fed by the mothers placenta.

The ovum is the largest cell in the human body. You can see it without a microscope. The human ovum is between 100 and 200 µm long. They are nevertheless much smaller than the cleidoic eggs laid externally by reptiles and birds, which is why they need a long period of internal development in the womb.

The sexual cycle is quite different in other mammals, whose females are only receptive during their 'heat', which triggers the release of eggs from the ovary. Sexual activity then continues for a few days, then ceases entirely until the next heat.

In many plants, ova are made inside archegonia through meiosis. The archegonium has a long 'neck' with the egg cell inside. When the egg is mature, the neck opens and sperm swims in to fertilize the egg.

In flowering plants, the female gametes are made of only eight cells, called the embryo sac, inside the ovule. The cell closest to the opening of the embryo sac becomes the egg cell. When pollinated, sperm swims into the embryo sac and fertilizes the egg. The zygote then develops into an embryo inside the ovule.




</doc>
<doc id="43947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43947" title="Ovule">
Ovule

Ovules produce the cells which get fertilised during sexual reproduction in plants. The word literally means "small egg". 

In seed plants, the ovule is the structure that gives rise to, and contains, the female reproductive cells. The megagametophyte (also called the "embryo sac" in flowering plants) produces the egg cell for fertilisation. 


</doc>
<doc id="43948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43948" title="Horn (musical instrument)">
Horn (musical instrument)

The horn is a brass instrument. It developed from the horns that some animals have on their heads. Modern horns are often called French horns.

Horns were often used during hunting. These early brass instruments were round so that the hunter could put his arm through it and carry it on his shoulder and blow it while riding a horse. The riders could send messages to one another by blowing particular notes.

In the 17th century the modern orchestra was developing. Orchestras played for operas. Opera stories in those days were usually about gods and goddesses or kings and queens. There was often a hunting scene in the story. Hunters were asked to come and play their horns in the orchestra for these scenes. This is how the horn became an orchestral instrument.

A brass instrument gives one basic note (the “fundamental”). A few other notes (“harmonics”) can be got by changing the pressure with the lips. Gradually horn players discovered that if they put their right hand in the bell they could change the basic note. This made it possible to play lots of different notes. When Mozart wrote his horn concertos he was writing for a hand horn. When a note is played using the hand in the bell it makes the note sound different: more muffled (a bit like speaking while covering your mouth with your hand). A Mozart horn concerto sounds very different when played on a modern horn.

Another way to change the notes on a horn was to use crooks. These are like extensions to the horn. The longer the tube the lower the note, so adding a crook (an extra circle) would give a lower basic note. 

By the 1830s the modern horn with three valves had been invented. These valves change the length of the tube, so that the horn had now become chromatic i.e. it could play all the notes including sharps and flats. Composers like Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss wrote complicated music for the horn which would never have been possible on the natural, valveless instruments.. However, some composers preferred the sound of the natural horn. Brahms wrote for the natural horn when he wrote his "Horn Trio" for piano, violin and horn. Benjamin Britten, in his "Serenade for tenor, horn and strings", asks for the horn to played naturally (without valves) for the fanfare at the beginning to make it sound like a hunting horn. 

The horn has a conical bore. This means that the tubing gradually becomes wider (a trumpet and trombone have a cylindrical bore): the tubing is the same thickness all the way along. The modern horn has 6.4 metres of tubing. It makes a beautiful, warm sound, but it is quite hard to play because the mouthpiece is small and the harmonics (the notes that can be played by changing the lip pressure) are very close together. The horn is a transposing instrument, usually in F (a written C sounds like the F below).

At the end of the 19th century the so-called “double horn” was invented, which was like a combination of a horn in F and a horn in B flat.

In the 18th century there were generally two horns in an orchestra. This became three or four in the 19th century, and some large orchestras now may have up to eight horns.



</doc>
<doc id="43949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43949" title="Valhalla">
Valhalla

In Norse mythology, Valhalla (or "Val-hall") is a giant hall. In it, Odin presides over all those warriors which were slain in battle, and deeemed worthy to attend. The Valkyries choose the warriors. These warriors will fight on Odin's side at Ragnarök the battle at the end of the world. 

During the day, they fight, during the night they consume. Also they would drink during the day, whilst they fight. alcoholic mead.


</doc>
<doc id="43952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43952" title="Category:Requests for unblock">
Category:Requests for unblock

This category was created to help know which users are currently requesting to be unblocked.



</doc>
<doc id="43953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43953" title="Template:Unblock">
Template:Unblock

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="43954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43954" title="Horn (anatomy)">
Horn (anatomy)

Horns are part of the body of some animals. They grow on the animal's head. They are projections (things that stick out) made of hard skin. The horn has a lot of keratin in it, the same protein that is in human hair and nails. 

Normally horned animals will have two horns, but the rhinoceros has just one horn in the middle of its head.

Animals often use their horns for fighting one another.

Thousands of years ago people used the horns of dead animals for musical instruments (see horn (musical instrument)). In later times, they were used for carrying gunpowder.


</doc>
<doc id="43955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43955" title="Mead">
Mead

Mead is a fermented alcoholic drink. It is made from honey. Its history is possibly as old as that of beer. It is made by mixing honey, water, and yeast. Some kinds of mead also include spices or fruit. Mead is sometimes called "honey wine".<br>
<br>
Archaeologists discovered that people made mead 9,000 years ago. Mead was described in the Rigveda, which is a Hindu religious text. Mead is popular in Central Europe and the Balkans. Mead is also made in Ethiopia and South Africa.


</doc>
<doc id="43958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43958" title="Ull">
Ull

In Norse mythology, Ull (or Ullr) is the son of Sif, and the of Thor. People think he was the god of Winter, of hunting, of hand-to-hand combat, and of the tree. He is married to Skadi, the goddess of winter, and the ex-wife of Njord. 


</doc>
<doc id="43959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43959" title="Thrud">
Thrud

Thrud is the daughter of Sif and Thor in Norse mythology. She is the goddess of the heath, of willows, of trees, flowers and the grass. Her name means strength in Old Norse.


</doc>
<doc id="43960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43960" title="Hugin and Munin">
Hugin and Munin

Hugin and Munin are two ravens, commonly associated with Odin. They bring Odin news from the world, when he sends them out. Their names translate as thought and memory, respectively.


</doc>
<doc id="43964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43964" title="Hel (goddess)">
Hel (goddess)

Hel is a goddess of Norse mythology. Her father is Loki, and her mother is Angrboda, a giantess. Her siblings are Jörmungandr and Fenrir. Her task is to reign over the realm of the dead, also called Hel.


</doc>
<doc id="43973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43973" title="Runestone">
Runestone

A Runestone or Rune stone is a large stone, with runes inscribed on it, dating from the early Middle Ages. Currently, about 6000 such stones are known to exist in Scandinavia. About half of them date from the tenth and eleventh century, and were found in Sweden. Most of them are like grave stones. They announce the life and death of a local person. About 10 percent of the known stones tell about the travels and deaths of persons abroad. Some of these texts are similar to what Scandinavians who travelled to Byzantium have written in Latin.


</doc>
<doc id="43984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43984" title="Balcony">
Balcony

A balcony is a kind of floor at a certain height, which stands out from the building. Usually, there is some kind of balustrade so people do not fall off.


</doc>
<doc id="43990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43990" title="Bergstraße Route">
Bergstraße Route

Bergstraße ("Mountain Road") is the name of a mountain route, and the area around it, which stretches across the western edge of the Odenwald in southern Hesse and northern Baden-Württemberg, Germany. 

The name "Bergstraße" also refers to the district Kreis Bergstraße, the independent wine-growing region of Hessische Bergstraße and the Badische Bergstraße in the Baden wine-growing area.

The route goes almost straight from north to south at the spot where the Rhine lowlands meet the western edge of the Odenwald. The name comes from the road's route along the foot of the mountains, the Rhine lowlands once being too damp to build a road there.

The route mostly follows the modern B3 road. It begins in Darmstadt and, after passing through Eberstadt, splits into the "Old Bergstraße" and the "New Bergstraße", which goes somewhat farther to the west. The two routes meet again at Zwingenberg.

In Weinheim-Lützelsachsen the route splits into an old and a new Bergstraße again. The new one passes west of the old route as far as Heidelberg-Handschuhsheim, where the two meet once more. The route carrying on after the Neckar from Heidelberg to Wiesloch is still usually known as the Bergstraße, even though the type of country and climate typical of the Bergstraße is no longer as clear.



</doc>
<doc id="43994" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43994" title="Template:Unblock reviewed">
Template:Unblock reviewed


</doc>
<doc id="43998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43998" title="Waistband">
Waistband

A Waistband is something found on underwear. It is a band of rubber; which originally helped to keep the item in place. However, in recent years, such bands have been used for inscriptions (mainly of the brand name), so they became larger.


</doc>
<doc id="44000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44000" title="Caucasus">
Caucasus

The Caucasus or Caucasia is a region in Eurasia bordered on the south by Iran, on the southwest by Turkey, on the west by the Black Sea, on the east by the Caspian Sea, and on the north by Russia. The Persian name for the region is "Qafqâz". Caucasia includes the Caucasus Mountains and surrounding lowlands. 

The Caucasus Mountains are commonly known as a line between Asia and Europe, and the lands in Caucasia are different considered to be in one or both continents. The northern portion of the Caucasus is known as the Ciscaucasus and the southern portion as the Transcaucasus. The highest peak in the Caucasus is Mount Elbrus (5,642 m) which, in the western Ciscaucasus in Russia, is generally considered the highest point in Europe.


The Biblical Mount Ararat where Noah's Ark landed is known as the landmark of the ancient Armenian realm. The peak of Ararat is seasonally capped with snow. In Greek mythology, the Caucasus or Kaukasos was one of the pillars supporting the world. Prometheus was chained there by Zeus. The Roman poet Ovid placed Caucasus in Scythia and said it was a cold and stony mountain which was the abode of personified hunger.




</doc>
<doc id="44001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44001" title="Hamidian massacres">
Hamidian massacres

The Hamidian massacres took place around 1895 until 1897. The estimated number of Armenians killed are around 100,000 - 300,000.

These events are known by the Armenians as the "Great Massacres". The Armenians believed the Hamidian measures showed the extension of the Turkish state to do a systematic policy of murder and plunder against a small population. The Armenian revolutionary groups started around the end of the Russo-Turkish War of 1878 and grew with the first introduction of Article 166 of the Ottoman Penal code 166, and the raid of Erzerum Cathedral. 

Article 166 was meant to control the possession of arms, but it was used to target Armenians by not letting them possess arms. Local Kurdish tribes were armed to attack the defenseless Armenian population. Some diplomats said that the aim of these groups was to commit massacres so as to show counter-measures, and to invite "foreign powers to intervene," as Istanbul's British Ambassador Sir Philip Currie seen in March 1894. Even some Turkish authors admit the that this was just a pretext for the massacres.


</doc>
<doc id="44002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44002" title="Alfred Pampalon">
Alfred Pampalon

Alfred Pampalon (24 November 1867 – 30 September 1896) was born in the city of Lévis, Quebec, and died at 28 in Sainte-Anne-de-Beaupré. He was a Redemptorist priest known for having a deep faith in God and a deep love of Mary. He is a patron for people with addictions.

He was known to be a modest, prayerful person, and was thought of as honest and pure by his classmates. 

Pampalon was devoted to Mary; before going to a Redemptorists' monastery, he went to a statue of Mary and asked her to pray for the monks to let him join. The Monastery allowed him to join despite his poor health, because they saw his strong desire to become a Redemptorists father. While training to become a Roman Catholic priest his fellow students asked him how he managed to study philosophy so well, and he replied he imagined Mary was asking him the questions. He would make his head touch the floor and pray to her daily, and while dying he would pray to her throughout the day.

At the age of 26, Pampalon found out that he had tuberculosis. During this time he stayed devoted to God, moving back to Quebec to be a priest there. While dying from tuberculosis he gave communion, baptized people, and heard confessions. Before his death he was in constant pain, and would spend his days in prayer. The night before he priest died, he said in a soft voice "O death..., O holy death..., come..., do come! O divine Savior..., my hope is in your merits... I am happy... to suffer for you! I want to go to Heaven... to see you and Mary," After this he got up and sang the Magnificat in a loud voice. He has become known as the "Hail Mary Saint" because of this.



</doc>
<doc id="44004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44004" title="Armenian oblast">
Armenian oblast

Armenian oblast (1828-1840 AD) was an oblast (province) around eastern Armenia. It was created by the Russians when they took over Eastern Armenia, a large number of Armenians moved back from Persia to Armenia and about 35000 Muslims (Azeris, Kurds and Lezgins) and various nomadic tribes left the area.


</doc>
<doc id="44005" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44005" title="St. Hripsime">
St. Hripsime

St. Hripsime is a church in Ejmiadzin, Armenia. It was built in 618. It is one of the oldest churches in Armenia. St. Hripsime is also known for its fine Armenian architecture. This style of architecture was used again when they built many churches in Armenia.


</doc>
<doc id="44006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44006" title="Armenian language">
Armenian language

The Armenian language is a Indo-European language.

The Armenian language (հայերեն լեզու, Armenian way of saying it: [hɑjɛˈɾɛn lɛˈzu] — hayeren lezow, conventional short form hayeren) is an Indo-European language spoken by Armenians. It is the official language of the Armenia as well as in the region of Nagorno-Karabakh. The language is also widely spoken by Armenian communities all over the world. It has its own alphabet, the Armenian alphabet.


</doc>
<doc id="44007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44007" title="Armenian diaspora">
Armenian diaspora

The Armenian diaspora is a term used to describe the communities of Armenians living outside of Armenia. Of the total Armenian population living worldwide which was estimated to be 8,000,000 in 2004, only about 3,000,000 live in Armenia and about 120,000 in Nagorno-Karabakh in Azerbaijan.



</doc>
<doc id="44008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44008" title="Aspect">
Aspect

Aspect may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="44009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44009" title="Carol Vorderman">
Carol Vorderman

Carol Jean Vorderman (born 24 December 1960) is a British television presenter. She is best known for having picked the letters and numbers for the Channel 4 game show "Countdown". She is a regular panellist on ITV1 talk show "Loose Women". 


</doc>
<doc id="44011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44011" title="Automobiles of the 1920s">
Automobiles of the 1920s

Automobiles have changed a lot since the 1920s. The car industry was very good in the 1920s. There were many new types of cars. In the beginning of the 1920s, a lot of soldiers who fought in World War I bought cars when they returned home from the war. People started to see that having a car would make traveling much easier. Soon almost every American family had a car. Ford was the big car maker but other companies were also big at the time. Ford cars were popular because they did not cost much money. During the 1920s, car makers made a lot of money.



</doc>
<doc id="44015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44015" title="Norns">
Norns

The Norns are female deities in Norse mythology who govern fate. Their names are Urd (what has been), Verdandi (what is) and Skuld (what is to come). Skuld is also the name of a Valkyrie.

The Norns are at the base of the ash tree Yggdrasil (or, according to some versions, above the Bifröst bridge). They spin threads and weave the tapestry of fates. Each person's life is a thread in their loom. The length of the thread is the length of the person's life. Even the gods have their threads and are therefore not immortal, though the Norns hide the strings from the gods. So everything is set out beforehand. There is no luck, there is no randomness, everything is determined by destiny.

The Greeks called deities similar to the Norns Moirae, and the Romans called them Parcae.

The three Norns appear at the beginning of Richard Wagner's opera Götterdämmerung and foretell the downfall of the gods when a thread of fate breaks.


</doc>
<doc id="44020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44020" title="Star Trek: The Next Generation">
Star Trek: The Next Generation

Star Trek: The Next Generation was the second television series of the science fiction franchise "Star Trek". It was created by Gene Roddenberry, and was aired for seven years, from 1987 to 1994.

"The Next Generation" was set in the 24th century, eighty years after of "Star Trek", and it focused on the lives of a crew on a starship called "Enterprise". The crew's mission was to explore the universe, as was the mission of the crew in the original series.



</doc>
<doc id="44026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44026" title="Liopleurodon">
Liopleurodon

Liopleurodon was the largest species of Pliosaur. It is the largest carnivore ever to live. It grew up to 25 metres long and weight 150 tons! It was a relative of "Pliosaurus" and "Kronosaurus". It lived around 160 – 155 million years ago. 


</doc>
<doc id="44027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44027" title="Libonectes">
Libonectes

Libonectes was a plesiosaur related to "Elasmosaurus". It lived 80 to 65 million years ago. It grew up to 12 metres long. It was a predator of small fish; the fish ate plankton in the upper pelagic layers of the sea.


</doc>
<doc id="44029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44029" title="Dimetrodon">
Dimetrodon

Dimetrodon was a prehistoric reptile from the Permian period (about 309–233 million years ago). It was thought to be a dinosaur with a sail like the Spinosaurus but people later found out that it was a four legged animal. It lived 238 million years ago.


</doc>
<doc id="44030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44030" title="Spinosaurus">
Spinosaurus

Spinosaurus (which means 'spiny lizard') was a huge meat eating dinosaur from the Cretaceous, 112 to 97 million years ago. 

This dinosaur grew up to 17 meters long, stood up to 5 metres high, and weighed up to 8 tons. It had a two meter high sail on its back like "Dimetrodon". Several uses have been suggested for this sail, such as to help control its body temperature, as a way to attract a mate, and to intimidate or frighten enemies. It lived in what is now Sahara Desert, but which then was mangrove forests alongside shoreline conditions, tidal flats and channels. From the shape of its teeth and jaw, it may have been mainly a piscivore.

Its bones were first discovered in Egypt in 1912 and named by German paleontologist Ernst Stromer in 1915. Two species, "S. aegyptiacus" and "S. marocannus", are recognized by many paleontologists, although many say there is only one. "Spinosaurus" looked like "Baryonyx" except it was larger and more heavily built. Six specimens of "Spinosaurus" have been uncovered. "Spinosaurus" is much longer than "Tyrannosaurus".

It was featured as the main dinosaur in the 2001 film Jurassic Park III. It has also apppeared on postage stamps in several countries, and many toy companies have made models of "Spinosaurus".


</doc>
<doc id="44035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44035" title="Template:Welcomeg">
Template:Welcomeg


</doc>
<doc id="44040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44040" title="Anhanguera">
Anhanguera

Anhanguera, which means 'Old Devil', was a pterodactyl from the Upper Cretaceous. It was found in the Santana Formation of Brazil, and specimens from England are also placed in this genus. 

It ate fish and grew to 14 feet (4.5 meters) across. The species "Anhanguera piscator" is now placed in the genus "Coloborhynchus".


</doc>
<doc id="44041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44041" title="Rhamphorhynchus">
Rhamphorhynchus

Rhamphorhynchus is a genus of long-tailed pterosaurs in the Upper Jurassic. It is the best-known of the long-tailed pterosaurs, the sub-order Rhamphorynchoidea. 
"Rhamphorhynchus" had a long tail, stiffened with ligaments, which ended in a small diamond-shaped rudder on the end of its tail which helped keep it stable when it was flying.

The jaws of "Rhamphorhynchus" housed needle-like teeth, which were angled forward, with a curved, sharp, beak-like tip lacking teeth. Their diet was mainly fish and insects.

Like other pterosaurs, its body was covered with hairs, which suggests it had termperature regulation ('hot-blooded') and a high rate of metabolism. This is also found in birds and bats, and seems necessary for active flight.

The genus was quite successful: it is the most common pterosaur found in the Solnhofen limestone beds in Bavaria, Germany. These are the same strata where "Archaeopteryx" was found.

This early group flourished from the Upper Triassic to the end of the Jurassic. When we first see them in the fossil record they have developed three families, so biologists know their early evolution is not yet revealed. These three families are represented by the three genera "Rhamphorhynchus", "Dimorphodon" and "Eudimorphodon". This sub-order was the earliest kind or pterosaur, which were succeeded by the more 'derived' short-tailed pterosaurs, the Pterodactyloids, such as "Pterodactylus". In the Upper Jurassic both the two sub-orders were extant (living).
The group always has a long tail, stiffened by rod-like bony tendons to keep it straight. This indicates their flight was extremely stable, which means it kept on course, and did not dart about much. This feature is also found in "Archaeopteryx" and in early bats, and in insects like dragonflies. 

It can be interpreted like this. To dart about quickly requires special advanced brains and reflexes to keep control. Later birds and pterosaurs had extra 'control wiring' in their brains, but early ones did not. The evidence for this is the extra size of pterodactyl and bird brains compared with the reptile brains the groups started out with. That much of this increase is connected to seeing and flying is clear from how bird brains work.

The analogy would be planes. Early planes were highly stable, and so are airliners. Fighter planes are fundamentally much less stable, and have to be in order to jink about. This needs such fast reactions that the details are worked out by computer, with the pilot indicating where to go. 

It requires more 'brains' to control an unstable craft than it does a stable one. And the same principle applies to pterosaurs, birds and bats. Early birds, bats, pterosaurs and insects were all more stable, with tails or (insects) long abdomens. This helped the flying animal to keep on track, which is what we mean by 'stable'. 

All species in the group have teeth. The group died out at the end of the Jurassic, which suffered a minor extinction event.

This classification is simple, but unfortunately it is paraphyletic, because the two suborders are not sister groups. But there is not enough evidence to see which earlier group the pterodactyloids arose from. So this is the best we can do: 



</doc>
<doc id="44043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44043" title="Zhejiangopterus">
Zhejiangopterus

Zhejiangopterus is a pterosaur that was found in China. It lived in the late Cretaceous. 

At least six specimens of adults have been found. "Zhejiangopterus" was a moderately large pterosaur. Its wingspan was first estimated at five metres (16.4 feet). Later estimates reduced this to about 3.5 metres (11 feet). 

Its skull was long, low, perfectly arched, and lacked a "keel" or any other crest sometimes seen in related species. The beak was long, thin, sharply pointed, and lacked teeth. The cervical vertebrae were elongated. The first six dorsal vertebrae had fused together. This helped the chest keep stable against the forces generated by the wings.

Several pairs of belly ribs were preserved. Its upper leg bone was half the size of its upper arm bone, and strong and thin. The wings were short but robust


</doc>
<doc id="44044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44044" title="Tupuxuara">
Tupuxuara

Tupuxuara was a pterosaur that lived 112 million years ago. It was found in the Santana Formation, the remains of an inland sea. 

Some species were quite small, but the largest skull (length 130 cms) suggests a wingspan of 5.5 metres. It was an Azdarchid pterosaur, the same group as "Quetzalcoatlus".


</doc>
<doc id="44046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44046" title="Anurognathus">
Anurognathus

Anurognathus was a genus of small Rhamphorhynchoid pterosaurs which lived 150 million years ago, in the Upper Jurassic period. It had a short head with pin-like teeth for catching insects. It was found in the Solnhofen limestone, the same place as Archaeopteryx. They grew up to 35 cms wingspan.

Although it is in the long-tailed pterosaur group Rhamphorhynchoidea, its tail was comparatively short. This was an adaptation which made it more manoeuvrable in hunting. According to Döderlein the reduced tail of "Anurognathus" was similar to the pygostyle of modern birds. 

With an estimated wingspan of fifty centimetres (20 inches) and a nine centimetre long body (skull included), its weight was limited: forty grammes for a specimen with a 35 centimetre wingspan. 

Later a second, smaller, specimen was found, probably of a subadult individual. Its slab and counterslab are separated and both were sold to private collections. This second fossil is more complete and better articulated. It shows impressions of a large part of the flight membrane and under UV-light remains of the muscles of the thigh and arm become visible. It provided new information on many points of the anatomy. The skull was shown to have been very short and broad, wider than long.


</doc>
<doc id="44048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44048" title="Thirty-Nine Articles">
Thirty-Nine Articles

The Thirty-Nine Articles are the historic statements of Anglican beliefs. The Articles were not meant to be a complete statement of the Christian faith. They are a statement of the position of the Church of England against the Roman Catholic Church and against Protestants. 

The articles were made in 1563, under the direction of Archbishop Matthew Parker. They are based on the Forty-Two Articles written under the direction of Thomas Cranmer in 1552 and passed under Edward VI of England in 1553. They are printed in the Book of Common Prayer and other Anglican prayer books. Priests, deacons, and bishops of the Church of England have to take an oath that what is said in the Articles is "agreeable to the Word of God." Other Anglican churches do not make such a requirement.

The Thirty-Nine Articles was needed because at that time in English history it was not possible to find an agreement about Protestantism. Rather than have the church become divided, they needed a way to list what the church believed. John Henry Newman, before he converted to Roman Catholicism, tried to show that the Articles could be seen in a way less hostile to Catholic belief.

Outside the Church of England, Anglican opinions of the Thirty-Nine Articles vary. The Episcopal Church in the United States of America sees them as an historical document and but does not make its members follow them. Anglican priest John Wesley changed the Thirty-Nine Articles for use by American Methodists in the 18th century. These new Articles of Religion are still the official United Methodist Church doctrine.



</doc>
<doc id="44059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44059" title="Teal">
Teal

Teal can mean many things, such as:


</doc>
<doc id="44062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44062" title="Ojiya, Niigata">
Ojiya, Niigata

Ojiya (Japanese: 小千谷（おぢや）市;-shi) is a city in Niigata, Japan. As of July 16, 2003, 40,342 people lived in the city. Ojiya's total area is . The Lord Mayor of Ojiya is Yasuo Yatsui

An earthquake of magnitude 7.2 struck Ojiya on October 23, 2004 at 17:56 local time. The earthquake killed 51 people. 4,795 people were injured. 16,910 buildings and houses were destroyed. The amount of damage was 3,000,000,000 Yen ($32.5M US).

Ojiya has many types of industry. Electronics companies Sanyo electric and Panasonic are located in the city. It also has textile companies. The main agricultural crop in the city is rice. Ojiya is the largest miner of natural gas in Japan.

There are several festival each year in Ojiya.



</doc>
<doc id="44067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44067" title="Tantalus">
Tantalus

Tantalus was a mortal king in Greek mythology. He did many bad things against the gods and goddesses. At a banquet, he tried to feed people the flesh of his son Pelops. He had asked the gods and goddesses to come to this banquet. When they learn what he had planned, they punished Tantalus in not only this world (the world of the living), but the next as well (the world of the dead). Tantalus's punishment while he was alive was the ruin of his kingdom. His punishment when dead in the Tartaros of the Underworld was much worse.

He was made to stand in a pool of water up to his chin for all time. During this, he would always be hungry and . Each time Tantalus lowered his head to drink the water he was standing in, the water would lower. Over his head hung branches of trees filled with fruit. When he would try to get them, wind would blow them out of his reach. He was "tantalized" with food and drink. This is where the word tantalize comes from.

His son, Pelops, was made alive again by the gods. He went to Greece and became the ruler of the peninsula which still has his name, the Peloponesus.


</doc>
<doc id="44069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44069" title="Bushido">
Bushido

, meaning "Way of the Warrior", is a Japanese code of conduct and a way of life, more or less similar to the European code of chivalry. It comes from the samurai moral code and gives great importance to certain virtues like frugality, loyalty, martial arts mastery and honour until voluntary death, seppuku. Bushidō was created between the 11th to 14th centuries and took form as a code from the 12th to 16th centuries.

Under the Tokugawa Shogunate, Bushidō became official Japanese Feudal Law.
Honor codes are still used in modern times; for example, as part of the kamikaze beliefs... 



</doc>
<doc id="44070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44070" title="Category:Cities in Virginia">
Category:Cities in Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="44072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44072" title="Category:Cities in Oregon">
Category:Cities in Oregon


</doc>
<doc id="44073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44073" title="Category:Cities in Massachusetts">
Category:Cities in Massachusetts


</doc>
<doc id="44074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44074" title="Category:Cities in Maryland">
Category:Cities in Maryland


</doc>
<doc id="44075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44075" title="Category:Cities in Colorado">
Category:Cities in Colorado


</doc>
<doc id="44077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44077" title="Category:Cities in South Dakota">
Category:Cities in South Dakota


</doc>
<doc id="44078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44078" title="Category:Cities in New Jersey">
Category:Cities in New Jersey


</doc>
<doc id="44079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44079" title="Category:Cities in Wyoming">
Category:Cities in Wyoming


</doc>
<doc id="44080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44080" title="Category:Cities in Minnesota">
Category:Cities in Minnesota


</doc>
<doc id="44081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44081" title="Category:Cities in North America">
Category:Cities in North America


</doc>
<doc id="44082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44082" title="Category:Theme parks">
Category:Theme parks


</doc>
<doc id="44102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44102" title="Campaign">
Campaign

Campaign is trying to get something. Some battles in wars are called campaigns. When someone in politics is running for a political office, that is called a campaign. Sometimes, a series of advertisements can be referred to as an "advertising campaign". A "blood drive", when the Red Cross or a hospital asks people to give blood, is also a campaign.

A campaign usually involves groups of people following a plan and working together in different ways to get what they want.


</doc>
<doc id="44103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44103" title="Manco Capac">
Manco Capac

Manco Capac (died in 1107) was the first of the fourteen Inca rulers of Peru. He started the Inca empire. As he says it, his legend started at the waters of Lake Titicaca, when he was told by the sun god to go East to set up his empire. As they walked looking for a good place, Manco taught men to farm, hunt, and fish while Mama Ocllo, his wife taught women to work with wool and cotton. Near Cusco, as his sacred golden staff sank in the ground, Manco decided this was to be the capital city of his empire.


</doc>
<doc id="44106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44106" title="Brazzaville">
Brazzaville

Brazzaville is the capital city of the Republic of the Congo. One million people live there.

Brazzaville is on one side of the Congo river, with Kinshasa on the other side. Brazzaville and Kinshasa are the nearest country capitals in the World.


</doc>
<doc id="44107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44107" title="Yellow Sea">
Yellow Sea

The Yellow Sea is the northern part of the East China Sea, which in turn is a marginal sea of the Pacific Ocean. It is located between Mainland China and the Korean peninsula. Its name comes from the sand particles that color its water, originating from the Yellow River.


</doc>
<doc id="44113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44113" title="East China Sea">
East China Sea

The East China Sea is a marginal sea east of China. It is a part of the Pacific Ocean and covers an area of 1,249,000 km². In China, the sea is called the "East Sea". In Korea, the sea is sometimes called ""South Sea"", but this is more often used to speak only of the area near South Korea's southern coast.

The East China Sea is bounded on the East by the Kyūshū and Ryūkyū islands, on the South by Taiwan, and on the West by mainland China. It is connected with the South China Sea by the Taiwan Strait and with the Sea of Japan by the Korea Strait; it opens in the North to the Yellow Sea.

Territories with borders on the sea (clockwise from north) include: South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and Mainland China.

The Yangtze River (Chang Jiang) is the largest river flowing into the East China Sea.



</doc>
<doc id="44116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44116" title="Governor of California">
Governor of California

The Governor of California is the highest office in the state government in the American state of California. The office of Governor of California was created in 1849, before California became a state. Before it was a state, there had been six American military governors and numerous Mexican governors when California was part of Mexico. The current Governor of California is Jerry Brown

The Governor is in charge of making yearly "State of the State" speeches to the California state government, submitting the budget, and making sure that state laws are being followed. 



</doc>
<doc id="44117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44117" title="Hymn">
Hymn

A hymn is a religious song of worship, or a sacred song. Collections of hymns are known as hymnals.


</doc>
<doc id="44120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44120" title="Template:Db-meta">
Template:Db-meta


</doc>
<doc id="44123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44123" title="Scarlett O'Hara">
Scarlett O'Hara

Scarlett O'Hara is the name of the main character in the book "Gone with the Wind" by Margaret Mitchell, and "Scarlett" by Alexandra Ripley.


</doc>
<doc id="44124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44124" title="Vivien Leigh">
Vivien Leigh

Vivien Leigh (November 5, 1913 – July 7, 1967) was an English actress. She is most famous for playing Scarlett O'Hara in "Gone with the Wind" in 1939, and Blanche DuBois in "A Streetcar Named Desire" in 1951. Leigh won Academy Awards for both of these roles.

Leigh was married to Laurence Olivier and often acted in plays and films with him. Olivier was Leigh's second husband. The first was Leigh Holman, and Miss Leigh was still legally married to him when she came to the US to accompany Laurence Olivier who came to Hollywood to star in David O. Selznick's production of "Rebecca" directed by Alfred Hitchcock. It was lucky that Miss Leigh's agent just happened to be David O. Selznick's brother, Myron. Miss Leigh wrote long letters to her husband then during the shooting of GWTW, complaining about the script, the change of director from George Cukor to Victor Fleming. The change was made at the insistence of Clark Gable, who felt that Cukor was devoting too much time and attention to directing Miss Leigh and her co-star, Olivia deHavilland. Miss Leigh also complained in her letters of Gable's bad breath due to his dentures.

When her divorce was final, she married Olivier (she referred to him as her husband until she died, although they had been divorced for many years). Leigh believed that Olivier was the best actor of his (or any) generation, and worked very hard to be worthy of acting with him - on stage, of course. Leigh believed, as did Olivier, that the only place "real" acting took place was on the stage. Her film career reflects her lack of enthusiasm for that medium, concentrating instead on acting with Lord Olivier in live theatre. Many critics, however, did not feel that she had the "presence" and vocal prowess that Olivier possessed and her reviews were often (perhaps unfairly) negatively compared to her husband.

Leigh was considered to be very beautiful and this sometimes meant that she thought that she was not taken seriously as an actress. However her ill health was often a bigger problem. Leigh suffered from bipolar disorder and often had tuberculosis. These meant that her career went through period of decline and that she was sometimes considered difficult to work with.


</doc>
<doc id="44126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44126" title="Sacred Heart">
Sacred Heart

The prayer to the Sacred Heart of Jesus is a Roman Catholic devotion. The prayer was written by Saint Margaret Mary Alacoque. It is starting to become popular among Anglicans and Lutherans

From the time of John the Evangelist and Paul of Tarsus within Christianity there have always been various devotions to the love of God, but there is nothing to indicate that, during the first ten centuries of Christianity, any specific devotion was rendered to the wounded Heart of Jesus.[3] In the eleventh and twelfth centuries the first indications of devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus are found. It was in the fervent atmosphere of the Benedictine or Cistercian monasteries, in the world of those who followed the teachings of St. Anselm or St. Bernard of Clairveaux, that the devotion arose, although it is impossible to say positively what were its first texts or who were its first devotees c. To St. Gertrude, St. Mechtilde, and the author of the "Vitis mystica" (previously ascribed to St. Bernard, now attributed to St. Bonaventure) it was already well known.

From the 13th century to the sixteenth century, the devotion was propagated but it did not seem to have developed in itself. It was everywhere practised by individuals and by different religious congregations, such as the Franciscans, Dominicans, Carthusians, etc. It was, nevertheless, a private, individual devotion of the mystical order. Nothing of a general movement had been inaugurated, except for similarities found in the devotion to the Five Wounds by the Franciscans, in which the wound in Jesus' Heart figured most prominently.

In the sixteenth century, the devotion passed from the domain of mysticism into that of Christian asceticism. It was established as a devotion with prayers already formulated and special exercises, found in the writings of Lanspergius (d. 1539) of the Carthusians of Cologne, the Louis of Blois (Blosius; 1566), a Benedictine and Abbot of Liessies in Hainaut, John of Avila (d. 1569) and St. Francis de Sales, the latter belonging to the seventeenth century.

The historical record from that time shows an early bringing to light of the devotion. Ascetic writers spoke of it, especially those of the Society of Jesus. The image of the Sacred Heart of Jesus was everywhere in evidence, largely due to the Franciscan devotion to the Five Wounds and to the habit formed by the Jesuits of placing the image on their title-page of their books and the walls of their churches.

Nevertheless, the devotion remained an individual, or at least a private, devotion. Jean Eudes (1602-1680) made it public, gave it an Office, and established a feast for it. Père Eudes was the apostle of the Heart of Mary; but in his devotion to the Immaculate Heart there was a share for the Heart of Jesus. Little by little, the devotion to the Sacred Heart became a separate one, and on August 31, 1670, the first feast of the Sacred Heart was celebrated in the Grand Seminary of Rennes. Coutances followed suit on October 20, a day with which the Eudist feast was from then on to be connected. The feast soon spread to other dioceses, and the devotion was likewise adopted in various religious communities. It gradually came into contact with the devotion begun at Paray, and resulting in a fusion of the two.

The most significant source for the devotion to the Sacred Heart in the form it is known today was a nun of the religious congregation of the Visitation of Mary Saint Margaret Mary Alacoque (1647-1690), who claimed to have received visions of Jesus Christ. There is nothing to indicate that she had known the devotion prior to the revelations, or at least that she had paid any attention to it. These alleged revelations were numerous, and the following apparitions are especially remarkable:

On December 27, probably 1673, the feast of St. John, Margaret Mary reported that Jesus permitted her, as He had formerly allowed St. Gertrude, to rest her head upon His Heart, and then disclosed to her the wonders of His love, telling her that He desired to make them known to all mankind and to diffuse the treasures of His goodness, and that He had chosen her for this work.

In probably June or July, 1674, Margaret Mary claimed that Jesus requested to be honored under the figure of His Heart of flesh, also claiming that, when He appeared radiant with love, He asked for a devotion of expiatory love: frequent reception of Communion, especially Communion on the First Friday of the month, and the observance of the Holy Hour.

During the octave of Corpus Christi, 1675, probably on June 16, the vision known as the "great apparition" reportedly took place, where Jesus said, "Behold the Heart that has so loved men ... instead of gratitude I receive from the greater part (of mankind) only ingratitude ...", and asked Margaret Mary for a feast of reparation of the Friday after the octave of Corpus Christi, bidding her consult Father de la Colombière, then superior of the small Jesuit house at Paray. Solemn homage was asked on the part of the king, and the mission of propagating the new devotion was especially confided to the religious of the Visitation and to the priests of the Society of Jesus.

A few days after the "great apparition", Margaret Mary reported everything she saw to Father de la Colombière, and he acknowledging the vision as an action of the spirit of God, consecrated himself to the Sacred Heart and directed her to write an account of the apparition. He also made use of every available opportunity to circulate this account, discreetly, through France and England.

At his death, February 15, 1682, there was found in his journal of spiritual retreats a copy in his own handwriting of the account that he had requested of Margaret Mary, together with a few reflections on the usefulness of the devotion. This journal, including the account and an "offering" to the Sacred Heart, in which the devotion was well explained, was published at Lyons in 1684. The little book was widely read, even at Paray.

Margaret Mary reported feeling "dreadful confusion" over the book's contents, but resolved to make the best of it, approving of the book for the spreading of her cherished devotion. Outside of the Visitandines, priests, religious, and laymen espoused the devotion, particularly a Capuchin, Margaret Mary's two brothers, and some Jesuits, among the latter being Fathers Croiset and Gallifet, who promoted the devotion.

The death of Margaret Mary, October 17, 1690, did not dampen the zeal of those interested; on the contrary, a short account of her life published by Father Croiset in 1691, as an appendix to his book "De la Dévotion au Sacré Cœur", served only to increase it. In spite of all sorts of obstacles, and of the slowness of the Holy See, which in 1693 imparted indulgences to the Confraternities of the Sacred Heart and, in 1697, granted the feast to the Visitandines with the Mass of the Five Wounds, but refused a feast common to all, with special Mass and Office.

The devotion spread, particularly in religious communities. The Marseilles plague, 1720, furnished perhaps the first occasion for a solemn consecration and public worship outside of religious communities. Other cities of the South followed the example of Marseilles, and thus the devotion became a popular one. In 1726 it was deemed advisable once more to importune Rome for a feast with a Mass and Office of its own, but, in 1729, Rome again refused. However, in 1765, it finally yielded and that same year, at the request of the queen, the feast was received quasi-officially by the episcopate of France. On all sides it was asked for and obtained, and finally, in 1856, at the urgent entreaties of the French bishops, Pope Pius IX extended the feast to the Catholic Church under the rite of double major. In 1889 it was raised by the Catholic Church to the double rite of first class.

On May 15, 2006, Pope Benedict XVI sent a letter to FatherPeter Hans Kolvenbach, the Superior General of the Society of Jesus, on the 50th Anniversary of the encyclical "Haurietis Aquas", about the Sacred Heart, by Pope Pius XII. In his letter to Father Kolvenbach, Pope Benedict reaffirmed the importance of the devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus.

The Catholic acts of consecration, reparation and devotion were introduced when the feast of the Sacred Heart was declared. In his Papal Bull "Auctorem Fidei", Pope Pius VI praised devotion to the Sacred Heart. Finally, by order of Leo XIII, in his encyclical "Annum Sacrum" (May 25, 1899), as well as on June 11, he consecrated every human to the Sacred Heart. The idea of this act, which Leo XIII called "the great act" of his pontificate, had been proposed to him by a religious woman of the Good Shepherd from Oporto (Portugal) who said that she had supernaturally received it from Jesus. Since c. 1850, groups, congregations, and States have consecrated themselves to the Sacred Heart.

Peter Coudrin of France founded the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary on Dec 24, 1800. A religious order of the Roman Catholic Church, the order is best known for its missionary work in Hawaii.

Worship of the Sacred Heart mainly consists of several hymns, the Salutation of the Sacred Heart, and the Litany of the Sacred Heart. It is common in Roman Catholic services and occasionally is to be found in Anglican services.

The Feast of the Sacred Heart is a holy day in the Roman Catholic liturgical calendar, and is celebrated 19 days after Pentecost. As Pentecost is always celebrated on Sunday, the Feast of the Sacred Heart always falls on a Friday.

The Enthronement of the Sacred Heart is a Catholic ceremony in which a priest or head of a household consecrates the members of the household to the Sacred Heart. A blessed image of the Sacred Heart, either a statue or a picture, is then "enthroned" in the home to serve as a constant reminder to those who dwell in the house of their consecration to the Sacred Heart. The practice of the Enthronement is based upon Pope Pius XII's declaration that devotion to the Sacred of Jesus is "the foundation on which to build the kingdom of God in the hearts of individuals, families, and nations..."[4]

Sacred Heart is still a widely used name for many Catholic institutions, including schools, colleges, and hospitals in many countries around the world. It is also the name of many Catholic parishes, religious orders, and stores selling Catholic goods.
For a list of institutions named after the Sacred Heart, see Sacred Heart (disambiguation).

Religious imagery depicting the Sacred Heart is frequently featured in Catholic, and sometimes Anglican homes. Sometimes images display beneath them a list of family members, indicating that the entire family is entrusted to the protection of Jesus in the Sacred Heart, from whom blessings on the home and the family members are sought. The prayer "O Sacred Heart of Jesus, I place all my trust in Thee" is often used. One particular image has been used as part of a set, along with an image of the Blessed Virgin Mary. In that image, Mary too was shown pointing to her Immaculate Heart, expressing her love for the human race and for her Son, Jesus Christ. The mirror images reflect an eternal binding of the two hearts.

Many members of the Carlist military forces of the 19th and 20th centuries in Spain wore detentes or amulets with an image of the Sacred Heart. These Catholic monarchists believed the image would protect them against wounding by the enemy firearms.

Some non-Catholics, including Charismatic Protestants, have criticized devotion to the Sacred Heart as idolatry in that worship is directed towards a body part. The response of Catholics is to contend that the Sacred Heart is a traditional symbol depicting Christ's holy blood as a fountain. Some Catholics have been critical of the overly sentimental nature of such devotion,[5] but most of these critics concede that the images essentially reflect the core Christian tenet of love.

Dates for the Feast of the Sacred Heart, 2002-2020



</doc>
<doc id="44128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44128" title="Marian Prayer">
Marian Prayer

Marian prayers or Marian devotions are acts of praying to Mary, the mother of Jesus. It is mainly something done by Roman Catholics but it is also used by Anglo-Catholics. Marian prayer is not worship. It is asking Mary to pray, or intercede for you and/or other people. 


</doc>
<doc id="44129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44129" title="Clark Gable">
Clark Gable

William Clark Gable (February 1, 1901 - November 16, 1960) was an American actor. He is best known for playing the part of Rhett Butler in the 1939 movie version of "Gone with the Wind". Gable won an Academy Award for playing Fletcher Christian in the 1935 film version of "Mutiny on the Bounty".

The last movie that Gable starred in was "The Misfits", in 1961. This film also starred Marilyn Monroe and was written by Arthur Miller. Gable died shortly afterwards in Los Angeles, California, after having had a fourth heart attack.


</doc>
<doc id="44130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44130" title="Nyctosaurus">
Nyctosaurus

Nyctosaurus was a pterosaur from the Upper Cretaceous. It had a wing span of 1 meter and a very big crest. It was in the Pterodactyloidea and related to "Pteranodon". 


</doc>
<doc id="44131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44131" title="Marilyn Monroe">
Marilyn Monroe

Marilyn Monroe (1 June 1926 – 5 August 1962) was an American actress, singer, and model. She spent much of her childhood in foster homes. Monroe began a career as a model which led to a film contract in 1946. Her first role was that of Evie in the 1947 film "Dangerous Years". Her early roles may have been small ones, but her acting in "The Asphalt Jungle" and "All About Eve" (both 1950) were well liked by critics. Monroe's star grew with her acting in films such as "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes", "How to Marry a Millionaire", "Some Like It Hot", and "The Seven Year Itch". Her performance in "Bus Stop" was highly respect by critics, and she won a Golden Globe Award for her performance in "Some Like it Hot".

The final years of Monroe's life were marked by illness and personal problems. The situation around her death, from an overdose of barbiturates, has been the subject of guessing. Though officially called a "probable suicide", the possibility of an accidental overdose, as well as the possibility of homicide, have not been ruled out. In 1999, Monroe was ranked as the sixth greatest female actress of all time by the American Film Institute.

Marilyn was born in the Los Angeles County Hospital on 1 June 1926, as Norma Jeane Baker. She was the third child born to Gladys Pearl Baker (whose maiden name was Monroe).

Monroe's birth certificate names the father as Martin Edward Mortenson (of Norwegian ancestry). His residence is listed as "unknown". The name Mortenson is listed as her last name on the birth certificate, but her mother immediately had it changed to Baker. Baker was the last name of her mother's first husband. It was also the last name that her mother still used. Gladys Baker had married a Martin E. Mortenson in 1924, but they had separated before Gladys' pregnancy. Several of Monroe's biographers think that Gladys Baker used his name so it did not appear to be an illegitimate birth. Mortenson died at the age of 85, and Monroe's birth certificate, together with her parents' marriage and divorce documents, were discovered then. The documents showed that Mortenson filed for divorce from Gladys on March 5, 1927, and it was on October 15, 1928.

Throughout her life, Marilyn Monroe denied that Mortenson was her father. She said that, when she was a child, she had been shown a photograph of a man that Gladys said was Monroe's father. That man was Charles Stanley Gifford. She remembered that he had a thin mustache and looked similar to Clark Gable. Monroe said she had amused herself by pretending that Gable was her father.

Gladys was mentally unstable and financially unable to care for her daughter. She gave Monroe to foster parents, Albert and Ida Bolender of Hawthorne, California, where Monroe lived until she was seven.

In 1933, Gladys bought a house and brought Norma Jeane to live with her. A few months after moving in, however, Gladys suffered a mental breakdown, beginning a series of mental episodes that would bother her for the rest of her life. In "My Story", Monroe said her mother was "screaming and laughing" as she was taken to the State Hospital in Norwalk. Norma Jeane was declared a ward of the state, and Gladys' best friend, Grace McKee, became her guardian. It was Grace who had told Monroe that someday she would become a movie star. Grace let Norma Jeane wear makeup and took her out to get her hair curled. They would go to the movies together, forming the basis for Norma Jeane's fascination with films and the actors on the screen.

Grace McKee married Ervin Silliman (Doc) Goddard in 1935. Nine-year-old Monroe was sent to the Los Angeles Orphans Home (later renamed Hollygrove) and then to several foster homes. During the time at Hollygrove, several families were interested in adopting her. This never happened because her mother would not sign the papers to let the families adopt her. In 1937, Grace took Monroe back to live with her, Goddard, and one of Goddard's daughters from a previous marriage. This arrangement did not last for long, as she was nearly sexually assaulted by a drunk Doc Goddard on at least one occasion.

Grace sent her to live in with her great-aunt, Olive Brunings. This arrangement also did not last long, as 12-year-old Norma Jeane was assaulted (some reports say sexually) by one of Olive's sons. Biographers and psychologists have questioned whether at least some of Norma Jeane's later behavior (i.e. hypersexuality, sleep disturbances, substance abuse, disturbed interpersonal relationships), was a manifestation of the effects of childhood sexual abuse in the context of her already problematic relationships with her psychiatrically ill mother and subsequent caregivers.

In early 1938, Grace sent her to live with yet another one of her aunts, Anna Lower, who lived in the Van Nuys section of Los Angeles. The time with Lower provided the young Norma Jeane with one of the few stable periods in her life. Years later, she would reflect fondly about the time that she spent with Lower, whom she affectionately called "Aunt Ana." Unfortunately, by 1942, the elderly Lower developed serious health problems, and thus Norma Jeane went back to live with the Goddards. It was there where she met a neighbor's son, James Dougherty, and began a relationship with him.

Her time with the Goddards would once again prove to be short. At the end of 1942, Grace and Doc decided to relocate to Virginia, where Doc had received a lucrative job offer. It is unclear whether the Goddards did not or could not take Norma Jeane with them; nevertheless, Grace needed to find a home for her before they moved. An offer from a neighborhood family to adopt Norma Jeane was proposed but Gladys still would not allow it. With few options left, Grace approached Dougherty's mother and suggested that Jim marry her so that she would not have to return to an orphanage or foster care. Dougherty was initially reluctant because Norma Jeane was only sixteen years old, but he finally relented and married her in a ceremony, arranged by Ana Lower, after graduating from high school in June 1942. Monroe would state in her autobiography that she did not feel like a wife; she enjoyed playing with the neighborhood children until her husband would call her home. In 1943, with World War II raging, Dougherty enlisted in the Merchant Marine and was shipped out to the Pacific. Frightened that he might not come back alive, Norma Jeane begged him to give her a child before he left. Dougherty disagreed, feeling that she was too young to have a baby, but he promised that they would revisit the subject when he returned home. After he shipped out, Norma Jeane moved in with Dougherty's mother.

While Dougherty was in the Merchant Marine, Monroe found employment in the Radioplane Munitions Factory. She sprayed airplane parts with fire retardant and inspected parachutes. During this time, Army photographer David Conover snapped a photograph of her for a "Yank" magazine article. He encouraged her to apply to The Blue Book Modeling Agency. She signed with the agency and began researching the work of Jean Harlow and Lana Turner. She was told that they were looking for models with lighter hair, so Monroe her brunette hair to a golden blonde.

Monroe became one of Blue Book's most successful models, appearing on dozens of magazine covers. Jim Dougherty was not aware of his wife's new job. He only became aware of it when he discovered a shipmate of his admiring a photo of a sexy model in a magazine. That model was Doughtery's wife, Norma Jeane. Dougherty wrote her several letters telling her that once he returned from service, she would have to give up her modeling. An unhappy Monroe, who now saw the chances of a modeling and acting career, decided then to divorce Dougherty. The marriage ended when he returned from overseas in 1946.

Her successful modeling career brought her to the attention of Ben Lyon, a 20th Century Fox executive. He arranged a screen test for her. Lyon was impressed and said, "It's Jean Harlow all over again." She was offered a six-month contract with a starting salary of $125 per week. Lyon did not like her name and chose "Carole Lind" as a stagename, after Carole Lombard and Jenny Lind. He soon decided it was not an appropriate choice. Monroe was invited to spend the weekend with Lyon and his wife Bebe Daniels at their home. It was there that they decided to find her a new name. Following her idol Jean Harlow, Norma Jeane decided to choose her mother's maiden name of Monroe. Several names such as Norma Jeane Monroe and Norma Monroe were tried and initially "Jeane Monroe" was chosen. Lyon, however, felt that there were too many actresses with the name Jean. Wanting a more unique name, Lyon suggested "Marilyn," commenting that she reminded him of Marilyn Miller, the sexy 1920's Broadway actress. Monroe did not like it at first because Marilyn was the combination of the name Mary Lynn, a name she did not like. Lyon, however, felt that the name "Marilyn Monroe" was sexy, had a "nice flow," and would be "lucky" due to the double "M" and thus Norma Jeane Baker took the name Marilyn Monroe.

She appeared in "Scudda Hoo! Scudda Hay!" and "Dangerous Years" in 1947, but when her contract was not renewed. She returned to modeling. Monroe attempted to find opportunities for film work, and while unemployed, she posed for nude photographs. That year, she was also crowned the first "Miss California Artichoke Queen" at the yearly artichoke festival in Castroville.

In 1948, Monroe signed a six-month contract with Columbia Pictures. She was introduced to the studio's head drama coach Natasha Lytess, who became her acting coach for several years. Monroe starred in the low-budget musical "Ladies of the Chorus". The film was not a success, and her contract was not renewed. During her short time at Columbia, studio president Harry Cohn corrected a slight overbite she had. In addition, he had her golden brownish-blonde hair lightened to platinum blonde.

She had a small role in the Marx Brothers film "Love Happy" in 1949. She impressed the producers, who sent her to New York to feature in the film's promotional campaign.

"Love Happy" brought Monroe to the attention of the talent agent, Johnny Hyde, who agreed to represent her. He arranged for her to audition for John Huston, who cast her in the drama "The Asphalt Jungle" as the young mistress of an aging criminal. Her performance brought strong reviews, and was seen by the writer and director, Joseph Mankiewicz. He accepted Hyde's suggestion of Monroe for a small comedic role in "All About Eve" as Miss Caswell. Her role was as an aspiring actress, described by another character as a student of "The Copacabana School of Dramatic Art". Mankiewicz later commented that he had seen an innocence in Monroe that he found appealing. Following Monroe's success in these roles, Hyde arranged for a seven-year contract for her with 20th Century Fox, shortly before his death in December 1950. 

Monroe enrolled at UCLA in 1951 where she studied literature and art appreciation. She appeared in several minor films with long-established performers such as Mickey Rooney, Constance Bennett, June Allyson, Dick Powell and Claudette Colbert. In March 1951, she appeared as a presenter at the 23rd Academy Awards ceremony.

In 1952, Monroe appeared on the cover of "LOOK" magazine wearing a Georgia Tech sweater as part of an article celebrating female enrollment to the school's main campus.

In the early 1950s, Monroe and Gregg Palmer both unsuccessfully auditioned for roles as Daisy Mae and Abner in a proposed "Li'l Abner" television series based on the Al Capp comic strip, but the show was never made.

In March 1952, Monroe faced a possible scandal when one of her nude photos from a 1949 session with photographer Tom Kelley was put in a calendar. The press tried to figure out who the anonymous model was and commented that she closely resembled Monroe. As the studio discussed how to deal with the problem, Monroe suggested that she should simply say that she had posed for the photograph but that she should emphasize that she had done so only because she had no money to pay her rent. She gave an interview in which she discussed the reasons that led to her posing for the photographs. Because of the interviews, the public felt sympathy for her life as a struggling actress.

She made her first appearance on the cover of "LIFE" magazine in April 1952, where she was described as "The Talk of Hollywood". Stories of her childhood and upbringing portrayed her in a sympathetic light: a cover story for the May 1952 edition of "True Experiences" magazine showed a smiling and wholesome Monroe beside a caption that read, "Do I look happy? I should — for I was a child nobody wanted. A lonely girl with a dream — who awakened to find that dream come true. I am Marilyn Monroe. Read my Cinderella story." It was also during this time that she began dating baseball player Joe DiMaggio. A photograph of DiMaggio visiting Monroe at the 20th Century Fox studio was printed in newspapers throughout the United States, and news of a romance between them created more interest in Monroe.

Over the following months, four films in which Monroe acted were released. She had been lent to RKO Studios to appear in a supporting role in "Clash by Night", a Barbara Stanwyck drama, directed by Fritz Lang. Released in June 1952, the film was popular with audiences, with much of its success credited to curiosity about Monroe, who received generally favorable reviews from critics.
This was followed by two films released in July, the comedy "We're Not Married", and the drama "Don't Bother to Knock". "We're Not Married" featured Monroe as a beauty pageant contestant. "Variety" described the film as "lightweight". Its reviewer commented that Monroe was featured to full advantage in a bathing suit, and that some of her scenes suggested a degree of exploitation. In "Don't Bother to Knock" she played the starring role of a babysitter who threatens to attack the child in her care. The melodrama was poorly reviewed, although Monroe commented that it contained some of her strongest dramatic acting. "Monkey Business", a comedy directed by Howard Hawks starring Cary Grant and Ginger Rogers, was released in September. It achieved good ticket sales despite weak reviews. In "O. Henry's Full House" for 20th Century Fox, released in August 1952, Monroe had a single one-minute scene with Charles Laughton yet received top billing alongside him and the film's other stars.

Darryl F. Zanuck considered that Monroe's film potential was worth developing and cast her in "Niagara" as a woman scheming to murder her husband, played by Joseph Cotten. During filming, Monroe's make-up artist Whitey Snyder noticed her stage fright. The director made him spend hours gently comforting Monroe as she prepared to film her scenes.

Much of the critical commentary following the release of the film focused on Monroe's overtly sexual performance, and a scene which shows Monroe (from the back) making a long walk toward Niagara Falls received frequent note in reviews. After seeing the film, Constance Bennett reportedly quipped, "There's a broad with her future behind her." Whitey Snyder also commented that it was during preparation for this film, after much experimentation, that Monroe achieved "the look, and we used that look for several pictures in a row ... the look was established."

While the film was a success, and Monroe's performance had positive reviews, her conduct at promotional events sometimes drew negative comments. Her appearance at the "Photoplay" awards dinner in a skin-tight gold lamé dress was criticized. Louella Parsons' newspaper column quoted Joan Crawford discussing Monroe's "vulgarity" and describing her behavior as "unbecoming an actress and a lady". Monroe had previously received criticism for wearing a dress with a neckline cut almost to her navel when she acted as Grand Marshall at the Miss America Parade in September 1952. A photograph from this event was used on the cover of the first issue of "Playboy" in December 1953, with a nude photograph of Monroe, taken in 1949, inside the magazine.

Her next film was "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" (1953) co-starring Jane Russell and directed by Howard Hawks. Her role as Lorelei Lee, a showgirl, required her to act, sing, and dance. The two stars became friends, with Russell describing Monroe as "very shy and very sweet and far more intelligent than people gave her credit for." She later recalled that Monroe showed her dedication by rehearsing her dance routines each evening. However, she arrived late on set for filming every day. Realizing that Monroe remained in her dressing room because of stage fright, and that Hawks was upset with her being late, Russell started walking her to the set.

At the Los Angeles premiere of the film, Monroe and Russell pressed their hand- and footprints in the cement in the forecourt of Grauman's Chinese Theatre. Monroe received positive reviews and the film earned more than double its production costs. Her singing of "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend" became associated with her. "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" also marked one of the earliest films in which William Travilla dressed Monroe. Travilla dressed Monroe in eight of her films including "Bus Stop", "Don't Bother to Knock", "How to Marry a Millionaire", "River of No Return", "There’s No Business Like Show Business", "Monkey Business", and "The Seven Year Itch".

"How to Marry a Millionaire" was a comedy about three models how made a plan to attract a husband who had a lot of money. Monroe worked with Betty Grable and Lauren Bacall for the movie. It was directed by Jean Negulesco. The producer and scriptwriter, Nunnally Johnson, said that it was the first film in which audiences "liked Marilyn for herself [and that] she diagnosed the reason very . She said that it was the only picture she'd been in, in which she had a measure of ... about her own attractiveness."

Monroe's films of this period established her "dumb blonde" persona and added to her popularity. In 1953 and 1954, she was listed in the annual "Quigley Poll of the Top Ten Money Making Stars." This list was created from the votes of people who showed movies throughout the United States for the actors that had made the most money in their theaters over the last year.

During this time, Monroe talked about her acting hopes, telling the "New York Times" "I want to grow and develop and play serious dramatic parts. My dramatic coach, Natasha Lytess, tells everybody that I have a great soul, but so far nobody's interested in it." She saw a possibility in 20th Century Fox's upcoming film, "The Egyptian," but was stopped by Darryl F. Zanuck who refused to screen test her.

Instead, she was assigned to the western "River of No Return" with Robert Mitchum. Director Otto Preminger did not like Monroe's need to use Natasha Lytess, who coached Monroe and told her opinion of Monroe's acting at the end of each scene. Eventually Monroe would not speak to Preminger, and Mitchum had to solve the fight. Of the finished movie, Monroe said, "I think I deserve a better deal than a grade Z cowboy movie in which the acting finished second to the scenery and the CinemaScope process."

In late 1953 Monroe was scheduled to begin filming "The Girl in Pink Tights" with Frank Sinatra. When she failed to appear for work, 20th Century Fox suspended her.

She and Joe DiMaggio were married in San Francisco on January 14, 1954. They traveled to Japan soon after. The couple combined a honeymoon with a business trip previously arranged by DiMaggio. For two weeks she took a secondary role to DiMaggio as he conducted his business, telling a reporter, "Marriage is my main career from now on." Monroe then traveled alone to Korea where she performed for 13,000 American Marines over a three-day period. She later said that the experience had helped her get over a fear of performing in front of large crowds.

Returning to Hollywood in March 1954, Monroe fixed her disagreement with 20th Century Fox. She then appeared in the musical "There's No Business Like Show Business". The film did not make back its production costs and was poorly received. Ed Sullivan described Monroe's performance of the song "Heat Wave" as "one of the most violations of good taste" he had seen. "Time magazine" compared her negatively to co-star Ethel Merman. Bosley Crowther of "The New York Times" said that Mitzi Gaynor had passed Monroe's "embarrassing to behold" performance. The reviews echoed Monroe's opinion of the film. She had made it reluctantly, on the assurance that she would be given the starring role in the film adaptation of the Broadway hit "The Seven Year Itch."

In September 1954, Monroe filmed one of the key scenes for "The Seven Year Itch" in New York City. In it, she stands with her co-star, Tom Ewell, while the air from a subway grating blows her skirt up. A large crowd watched as director Billy Wilder ordered the scene to be refilmed many times. Among the crowd was Joe DiMaggio, who was reported to have been very mad by the scene and the crowd watching. After a fight, witnessed by journalist Walter Winchell, the couple returned to California where they stayed away from the press for two weeks. Monroe then announced that they had separated. Their divorce was granted in November 1954. The filming of "The Seven Year Itch" was completed in early 1955. After saying no what she considered to be inferior parts in "The Girl in the Red Velvet Swing" and "How to Be Very, Very Popular", Monroe decided to leave Hollywood on the advice of Milton Greene.

Milton Greene had first met Monroe in 1953 when he was assigned to photograph her for "Look" magazine. While many photographers tried to show her sexy image, Greene presented her in more modest poses, and she was pleased with his work. As a friendship grew between them, she talked to him about her concerns with her 20th Century Fox contract and the roles she was offered. Her salary for "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" was $18,000, while Jane Russell (who had no contract with any company) was paid more than $100,000. Greene agreed that she could earn more by leaving 20th Century Fox. He gave up his job in 1954, mortgaged his home to finance Monroe, and allowed her to live with his family as they made a plan for the future of her career.

On April 8, 1955, journalist Edward R. Murrow interviewed Greene and his wife Amy, as well as Monroe, at the Greenes' home in Connecticut on a live telecast of the CBS program "Person to Person".

Truman Capote introduced Monroe to Constance Collier, who gave her acting lessons. She felt that Monroe could not be a stage, but had a "lovely talent" that was "so fragile and subtle, it can only be caught by the camera". After only a few weeks of lessons, Collier died. Monroe had met Paula Strasberg and her daughter Susan on the set of "There's No Business Like Show Business", and had previously said that she would like to study with Lee Strasberg at the Actors Studio. In March 1955, Monroe met with Cheryl Crawford, one of the founders of the Actors Studio, and convinced her to introduce her to Lee Strasberg. The next day Lee interviewed her and agreed to accept her as a student.

In May 1955, Monroe started dating playwright Arthur Miller; they had met in Hollywood in 1950 and when Miller discovered she was in New York, he arranged for a mutual friend to reintroduce them. On June 1, 1955, Monroe's birthday, Joe DiMaggio accompanied Monroe to the premiere of "The Seven Year Itch" in New York City. He later hosted a birthday party for her, but the evening ended with a public quarrel, and Monroe left the party without him. A lengthy period of estrangement followed.

Throughout 1955, Monroe studied with the Actors Studio. She discovered that one of her biggest issues in her career was her severe stage fright. She became friends with actors Kevin McCarthy and Eli Wallach who each she was sincere in her approach to her studies. They noted that she tried to avoid attention by sitting quietly in the back of the class. When Strasberg felt Monroe was ready to give a performance in front of her peers, Monroe and Maureen Stapleton chose the opening scene from Eugene O'Neill's "Anna Christie." Monroe had performed poorly during each rehearsal, she was able to complete the performance without forgetting her lines. Kim Stanley later recalled that students were discouraged from applauding, but that Monroe's performance had resulted in applause from the audience. While Monroe was a student, Lee Strasberg commented, "I have worked with hundreds and hundreds of actors and actresses, and there are only two that stand out way above the rest. Number one is Marlon Brando, and the second is Marilyn Monroe."

"The Seven Year Itch" was released and became a success, earning about $8 million. Monroe received positive reviews for her performance and was in a strong position to negotiate with 20th Century Fox. On New Year's Eve 1955, they signed a new contract which required Monroe to make four films over a seven-year period. The newly formed Marilyn Monroe Productions would be paid $100,000 plus a share of profits for each film. In addition to being able to work for other studios, Monroe had the right to reject any script, director or cinematographer she did not approve of.

The first film to be made under the contract and production company was "Bus Stop" directed by Joshua Logan. Logan had studied under Konstantin Stanislavsky, approved of method acting, and was supportive of Monroe. Monroe stopped working with her drama coach, Natasha Lytess, and replaced her with Paula Strasberg. Strasberg was always on set during the filming of Monroe's subsequent films.

In "Bus Stop", Monroe played Chérie, a saloon singer with little talent who falls in love with a cowboy. Her costumes, make-up and hair showed a character who lacked class. Monroe sang and danced poorly on purpose to match the role. Bosley Crowther of "The New York Times" said: "Hold on to your chairs, everybody, and get set for a rattling surprise. Marilyn Monroe has finally proved herself an actress." In his autobiography, "Movie Stars, Real People and Me," director Logan wrote: "I found Marilyn to be one of the great talents of all time... she struck me as being a much brighter person than I had ever imagined, and I think that was the first time I learned that intelligence and, yes, brilliance have nothing to do with education." Logan tried to get Monroe an Academy Award nomination and said good things about her professionalism until the end of his life. Though not nominated for an Academy Award, she received a Golden Globe nomination.

During this time, the relationship between Monroe and Miller had developed. The couple was able to maintain their privacy for almost a year, but now the press began to write about them as a couple, and sometimes called them "The Egghead and The Hourglass". The reports of their romance were soon replaced by news that Miller had been called to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee to explain his possible communist connections. Called upon to identify communists he was association with, Miller refused and was charged with contempt of Congress. He was acquitted on appeal. During the case, Monroe was urged by film executives to leave Miller, rather than risk her career. She refused and called them as "born cowards". The press began to talk about a possible marriage, but Monroe and Miller refused to confirm the rumor. In June 1956, a reporter was following them by car. As they attempted to get away from him, the reporter's car crashed. The crash killed his female passenger. Monroe became very upset upon hearing the news. Miller and Monroe announced their engagement, partly in hopes that it would reduce the media interest they was around them. They were married on June 29, 1956.

"Bus Stop" was followed by "The Prince and the Showgirl" directed by Laurence Olivier, who also co-starred. Prior to filming, Olivier praised Monroe as "a brilliant comedienne, which to me means she is also an extremely skilled actress". During filming in England he did not like Monroe's need for her drama coach. He thought Strasberg was a fraud whose only talent was the ability to "butter Marilyn up". He recalled his attempts at explaining a scene to Monroe, only to hear Strasberg say, "Honey — just think of Coca-Cola and Frank Sinatra."

Despite Monroe and Olivier fighting, Olivier later commented that in the film "Marilyn was quite wonderful, the best of all." Monroe's performance was praised by critics, especially in Europe, where she won the David di Donatello, the Italian equivalent of the Academy Award, as well as the French Crystal Star Award. She was also nominated for a BAFTA.

It was more than a year before Monroe began her next film. During her break, she spent the summer with Miller in Amagansett, Long Island. She suffered a miscarriage on August 1, 1957.

With Miller's encouragement she returned to Hollywood in August 1958 to star in "Some Like it Hot". The film was directed by Billy Wilder and co-stared Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis. Wilder had experienced Monroe's lateness, stage fright, and inability to remember lines during production of "The Seven Year Itch". However her behavior was now more hostile, and included her refusals to participate in filming and occasional uses of profanity. Monroe often refused to take direction from Wilder, or insisted on numerous retakes of simple scenes until she was satisfied. She developed a working relationship with Lemmon, but she disliked Curtis after hearing that he had described their love scenes as "like kissing Hitler". Curtis later stated that the comment was intended as a joke. During filming, Monroe discovered that she was pregnant. She suffered another miscarriage in December 1958, as filming was completed.

"Some Like it Hot" became a major success, and was nominated for five Academy Awards. Monroe was praised for her performance and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress - Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. Wilder commented that the film was the biggest success he had ever been associated with. He discussed the problems he had during filming, saying "Marilyn was so difficult because she was totally unpredictable. I never knew what kind of day we were going to have... would she be cooperative or ?" He had little patience with her method acting technique and said that instead of going to the Actors Studio "she should have gone to a train-engineer's school ... to learn something about arriving on schedule." Wilder had become ill during filming, and explained, "We were in mid-flight – and there was a nut on the plane." Looking back at it, he discussed Monroe's "certain indefinable magic" and "absolute genius as a comic actress."

By this time, Monroe had only completed one film, "Bus Stop," under her four picture contract with 20th Century Fox. She agreed to appear in "Let's Make Love," which was to be directed by George Cukor. However, she was not satisfied with the script, and Arthur Miller rewrote it. Gregory Peck was originally cast in the male lead role, but he refused the role after Miller's rewrite. Cary Grant, Charlton Heston, Yul Brynner and Rock Hudson also refused the role before it was offered to Yves Montand. Monroe and Miller became friends with Montand and his wife, actress Simone Signoret. The filming went well until Miller was required to travel to Europe on business. Monroe began to leave the film set early and on several occasions failed to attend, but her attitude improved after Montand talked to her about it. Signoret returned to Europe to make a film, and Monroe and Montand began a brief affair that ended when Montand refused to leave Signoret. The film was not a critical or commercial success.

Monroe's health declined during this period, and she began to see a Los Angeles psychiatrist, Dr. Ralph Greenson. He later recalled that during this time she frequently complained of insomnia. She told Greenson that she visited several medical doctors to obtain what Greenson considered a large variety of drugs. He concluded that she was getting close to the point of addiction, but also noted that she could give up the drugs for extended periods without suffering any withdrawal symptoms. According to Greenson, the marriage between Miller and Monroe was strained. He said that Miller appeared to genuinely care for Monroe and was willing to help her. Greenson stated that his main goal at the time was to try a harsh reduction in Monroe's drug intake.

In 1956 Arthur Miller had lived briefly in Nevada and wrote a short story about some of the local people he had met there, a divorced woman and some aging cowboys. By 1960 he had developed the short story into a screenplay, and thought of it as containing a good role for Monroe. It became her last completed film, "The Misfits," directed by John Huston and costarring Clark Gable, Montgomery Clift, Eli Wallach and Thelma Ritter. Shooting begin in July 1960, with most taking place in the hot Northern Nevada desert. Monroe was often ill and unable to perform. Without Dr. Greenson's help there, she had resumed her use of sleeping pills and alcohol. A visitor to the set, Susan Strasberg, later described Monroe as "mortally injured in some way,". In August, Monroe was rushed to Los Angeles where she was in the hospital for ten days. Newspapers reported that she had been near death, although what her illness was was not said. Louella Parsons wrote in her newspaper column that Monroe was "a very sick girl, much sicker than at first believed," and said that she was being treated by a psychiatrist.

Monroe returned to Nevada and completed the film, but she became upset with Miller, and public fights were reported by the press. Making the film had proved to be a hard experience for the actors. In addition to Monroe's problems, Montgomery Clift was often unable to perform due to illness. By the final day of shooting, Thelma Ritter was in hospital because of exhaustion. Gable, commenting that he felt unwell, left the set without attending the wrap party. Monroe and Miller returned to New York on separate flights.
Within ten days Monroe had announced her separation from Miller, and Gable had died from a heart attack. Gable's widow, Kay, said to Louella Parsons that it had been the "eternal waiting" on the set of "The Misfits" that had added to his death, though she did not name Monroe. When reporters asked Monroe if she felt guilty about Gable's death, she refused to answer. Journalist Sidney Skolsky recalled that in private Monroe said she felt regret for her poor treatment of Gable during filming and described her as being in "a dark pit of despair." Monroe later attended the christening of the Gables' son, at the invitation of Kay Gable.

"The Misfits" received poor reviews, and was not a commercial success, though some praised the performances of Monroe and Gable. Huston later commented that Monroe's performance was not acting in the true sense, and that she had drawn from her own experiences to show herself, rather than a character. "She had no techniques. It was all the truth. It was only Marilyn."

During the following months, Monroe's need for alcohol and prescription medications began to take a toll on her health. Friends such as Susan Strasberg later spoke of her illness. Her divorce from Arthur Miller was finalized in January 1961, with Monroe citing "incompatibility of character," In February she voluntarily entered the Payne Whitney Psychiatric Clinic. Monroe later described the experience as a "nightmare". She was able to phone Joe DiMaggio from the clinic, and he immediately traveled from Florida to New York to help her transfer to the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. She remained there for three weeks. Illness prevented her from working for the remainder of the year. She underwent surgery to fix a blockage in her Fallopian tubes in May. The following month underwent gall bladder surgery. She returned to California and lived in a rented apartment as she recovered.

In 1962 Monroe began filming "Something's Got to Give," which was to be the third film of her four-film contract with 20th Century Fox. It was to be directed by George Cukor, and co-starred Dean Martin and Cyd Charisse. She was ill with a virus as filming began. She suffered from high temperatures and sinusitis. On one occasion she refused to perform with Martin as he had a cold. Producer Henry Weinstein recalled seeing her on several occasions being physically ill as she prepared to film her scenes. He thought it was her fear of performing. He commented, "Very few people experience terror. We all experience anxiety, unhappiness, heartbreaks, but that was sheer primal terror."
On May 19, 1962, she attended the birthday celebration of President John F. Kennedy at Madison Square Garden, at the suggestion of Kennedy's brother-in-law, actor Peter Lawford. Monroe performed "Happy Birthday" along with a specially written verse based on Bob Hope's "Thanks for the Memory". Kennedy responded to her performance with the remark, "Thank you. I can now retire from politics after having had 'Happy Birthday' sung to me in such a sweet, wholesome way."

Monroe returned to the set of "Something's Got to Give" and filmed a scene in which she appeared nude in a swimming pool. Commenting that she wanted to "push Liz Taylor off the magazine covers," she gave permission for several partially nude photographs to be published by "Life". Having only reported for work on twelve occasions out of a total of 35 days of production, Monroe was dismissed. The studio 20th Century Fox filed a lawsuit against her for half a million dollars. The studio's vice president, Peter Levathes, issued a statement saying "The star system has gotten way out of hand. We've let the inmates run the asylum, and they've practically destroyed it." Monroe was replaced by Lee Remick, and when Dean Martin refused to work with any other actress, he was also threatened with a lawsuit.

After she was fired, Monroe was part of several high-profile publicity events. She gave an interview to "Cosmopolitan" and was photographed at Peter Lawford's beach house drinking champagne and walking on the beach. She next posed for Bert Stern for "Vogue" in a series of photographs that included several nudes. Published after her death, they became known as "The Last Sitting". Richard Meryman interviewed her for "Life," in which Monroe reflected upon her relationship with her fans and her uncertainties in calling herself a "star" and a "sex symbol." She referred to the events surrounding Arthur Miller's appearance before the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1956, and her studio's warning that she would be "finished" if she showed public support for him. She commented, "You have to start all over again. But I believe you're always as good as your potential. I now live in my work and in a few relationships with the few people I can really count on. Fame will go by, and, so long, I've had you fame. If it goes by, I've always known it was fickle. So at least it's something I experienced, but that's not where I live."

In the final weeks of her life, Monroe engaged in discussions about future film projects, and arrangements were made to continue talks about contracts. Among the projects was a biography of Jean Harlow later filmed unsuccessfully with Carroll Baker. Starring roles in Billy Wilder's "Irma La Douce" and "What a Way to Go!" were also discussed; Shirley MacLaine eventually played the roles in both films. Kim Novak replaced her in "Kiss Me, Stupid," a comedy in which she was to star opposite Dean Martin. A film version of the Broadway musical, "A Tree Grows In Brooklyn," and an unnamed World War I–themed musical co-starring Gene Kelly were also discussed, but the projects did not occur. Her dispute with 20th Century Fox was resolved, and her contract renewed into a $1 million two-picture deal. Filming of "Something's Got to Give" was scheduled to begin again in early fall 1962. Also on the table was an Italian film offer worth several million giving her script, director and co-star approval. Allan "Whitey" Snyder who saw her during the last week of her life, said Monroe was pleased by the roles available to her, and that she "never looked better [and] was in great spirits."

On August 5, 1962, LAPD police sergeant Jack Clemmons received a call at 4:25 a.m. from Dr. Ralph Greenson, Monroe's psychiatrist, saying that Monroe was found dead at her home in Brentwood, California. She was 36 years old. At the autopsy, eight milligram percent of Chloral Hydrate and 4.5 milligram percent of Nembutal were found in her system. Dr. Thomas Noguchi of the Los Angeles County Coroners office stated the cause of death as "acute barbiturate poisoning," resulting from a "probable suicide". Many theories, including murder, circulated about the way she died and the timeline after the body was found. Some theories involved John and Robert Kennedy, while other theories suggested CIA or mafia involvement.

On August 8, 1962, Monroe was interred in a crypt at Corridor of Memories #24, at the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Westwood, Los Angeles. Lee Strasberg delivered the eulogy. The crypt space immediately to the left of Monroe's was bought and reserved by Hugh Hefner in 1992.

In August 2009, the crypt space directly above that of Monroe was placed for auction on eBay. Elsie Poncher plans to take her husband's body out of the crypt above and move him to an nearby plot. She advertised the crypt, hoping "to make enough money to pay off the $1.6 million mortgage" on her Beverly Hills mansion. The winning bid was placed by an anonymous Japanese man for $4.6 million, but the winning bidder later backed out "because of the paying problem." 

In her will, Monroe left Lee Strasberg her personal belongings, which amounted to just over half of her estate. She expressed her desire that he "distribute [the effects] among my friends, colleagues and those to whom I am devoted." Instead, he stored them in a warehouse, and willed them to his widow, Anna. Inez Melson successfully sued Los Angeles-based Odyssey Auctions in 1994 to prevent the sale of items taken by Monroe's former business manager. In October 1999, Christie's auctioned most of the items, including those recovered from Melson's family. The action made US $13,405,785.

Anna Strasberg then sued the children of four photographers to determine rights of publicity, which permits the licensing of images of dead people for commercial reasons. The decision was worth millions as to whether Monroe was a resident of California (where she died) or New York (where her will was probated).

On May 4, 2007, a judge in New York ruled that Monroe's rights of publicity ended at death. In October 2007, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed Senate Bill 771. The law was supported by Strasberg and the Screen Actors Guild, and established that non-family members may inherit rights of publicity through the residuary clause of the deceased's will, provided that the person was a resident of California at the time of death.

In March 2008, the United States District Court in Los Angeles ruled that Monroe was a resident of New York at the time of her death. The court cited that the executor of her estate told California tax authorities this, and that a 1966 sworn affidavit by her housekeeper quoted Monroe as saying that she considered New York City her primary home. The decision was reaffirmed by the United States District Court of New York in September 2008.

Monroe had three marriages. Her first was to James Dougherty. Her second married was to Joe DiMaggio. Monroe's third, and final, marriage was to Arthur Miller. It was also widely rumored that she had had an affair with President John F. Kennedy, his brother Senator Robert Kennedy, or both. Marlon Brando, in his autobiography "Songs My Mother Taught Me", also said that he had had a relationship with her.

Monroe married James Dougherty on June 19, 1942, at the home of Chester Howell in Los Angeles. In "The Secret Happiness of Marilyn Monroe" and "To Norma Jeane with Love, Jimmie", he claimed they were in love, but her hopes to be a celebrity took her away. In 1953, he wrote an article called "Marilyn Monroe Was My Wife" for "Photoplay", in which he said that she threatened to jump off the Santa Monica Pier if he left her. In the 2004 documentary "Marilyn's Man", Dougherty made three new claims. He said that he invented the "Marilyn Monroe" persona. Dougherty claimed that studio executives made her divorce him. He also said that he was her true love and her "dedicated friend for life."

Dougherty's actions seem to go against these claims. He remarried months after Monroe divorced him. His sister told the December 1952 "Modern Screen Magazine" that he left Monroe because she wanted to pursue modeling, after he had given her permission to do so. He confirmed Monroe's story of the beginning of their relationship in an A&E Network Monroe documentary that his mother had asked him to marry her so that she would not be returned to an orphanage. When Monroe died on August 5, 1962, one of the responding officers knew Dougherty and called him at 4:00 a.m. with the news. Dougherty turned to his wife and said, "Say a prayer for Norma Jean. She's dead." On August 6, "The New York Times" reported that, after being told of her death, Dougherty replied "I'm sorry" and continued his LAPD patrol. He did not attend Monroe's funeral.

In 1951, Joe DiMaggio saw a picture of Monroe with Chicago White Sox players Joe Dobson and Gus Zernial. He did not ask the man who arranged the photo to set up a date for him and Monroe until 1952. Monroe wrote in "My Story" that she did not want to meet him because she thought he might be a stereotypical jock. They at San Francisco City Hall on January 14, 1954. During their honeymoon in Japan, she was asked to visit Korea as part of the USO. She performed ten shows in four days for over 100,000 servicemen.

Maury Allen quoted New York Yankees employee Arthur Richman that Joe told him that the marriage went wrong from then. On September 14, 1954, Monroe filmed the skirt-blowing scene for "The Seven Year Itch" in front of New York's Trans-Lux Theater. Bill Kobrin, then Fox's east coast correspondent, told the "Palm Springs Desert Sun" in 1956 that it was Billy Wilder's idea to turn the shoot into a media circus. The couple had a "yelling battle" in the theater lobby about the scene. She filed for divorce because of mental cruelty 274 days after the wedding.

In February 1961, Monroe entered the Payne Whitney Psychiatric Clinic. She contacted DiMaggio, who helped her get released. She later joined him in Florida, where he was serving as a batting coach at the New York Yankees' training camp. Bob Hope jokingly dedicated Best Song nominee "The Second Time Around" to them at the 1961 Academy Awards.

According to Allen, on August 1, 1962, DiMaggio quit his job with a PX supplier to ask her to remarry him. He quit because he was alarmed by how Monroe had got involved with people he considered bad to her well-being.

After Monroe's death, DiMaggio claimed her body and arranged her funeral. For 20 years, he had a half-dozen red roses delivered to her crypt three times a week.

In 2006, DiMaggio's adopted granddaughters auctioned most of his estate, which included two letters Monroe wrote to him and a photograph signed "I love you, Joe, Marilyn."

On June 29, 1956, Monroe married playwright Arthur Miller, whom she first met in 1950, in a civil ceremony in White Plains, New York. City Court Judge Seymour Robinowitz married the couple in the law office of Sam Slavitt. The wedding had been kept secret from both the press and the public. Monroe and Miller wed again two days later in a Jewish ceremony before a small group of guests. Rabbi Robert E. Goldburg, a Reform rabbi at Congregation Mishkan Israel, presided over the ceremony. The wedding was celebrated at the home of Miller's agent, Kay Brown, in Westchester County, New York. Some 30 friends and relatives attended the party. Less than two weeks after the wedding, the Millers flew to London, where they were greeted at Parkside House by Laurence Olivier and wife Vivien Leigh. In reflecting on his relationship with Monroe, Miller wrote, "She was a whirling light to me then, all paradox and enticing mystery, street-tough one moment, then lifted by a lyrical and poetic sensitivity that few retain past early adolescence." Nominally raised as a Christian, she converted to Judaism before marrying Miller. After she finished shooting "The Prince and the Showgirl" with Laurence Olivier, the couple returned to the United States from England and discovered she was pregnant.

Miller's screenplay for "The Misfits", a story about a despairing divorcée, was meant to be a Valentine gift for his wife, but by the time filming started in 1960 their marriage was beyond repair. A Mexican divorce was granted on January 24, 1961 in Ciudad Juarez by Francisco José Gómez Fraire. On February 17, 1962, Miller married Inge Morath, one of the Magnum photographers recording the making of "The Misfits".

In January 1964, Miller's play "After The Fall" opened, featuring a beautiful but slightly aggressive woman named Maggie. Simone Signoret noted in her autobiography the morbidity of Miller and Elia Kazan resuming their professional association "over a casket." In interviews and in his autobiography, Miller insisted that Maggie was not based on Monroe. However, he never pretended that his last Broadway-bound work, "Finishing the Picture," was not based on the making of "The Misfits". He appeared in the documentary "The Century of the Self," and stated his disapproval of the psychological work being done on her before her death.

On May 18, 1962, Monroe made her last major public appearance, singing "Happy Birthday, Mr. President" at a birthday party for President John F. Kennedy at Madison Square Garden. The dress that she wore to the event, specially designed and made for her by Jean Louis, sold at an auction in 1999 for USD $1.26 million.

Rumors have existed since the 1960s that Monroe had affairs with Robert Kennedy or John Kennedy, or both. Allegations of an affair with President Kennedy did not make it into the press until the 1970s, A pamphlet was published in 1964, after Monroe's death, called "The Strange Death of Marilyn Monroe", by investigator Frank Cappell. It alleged a relationship between Monroe and Bobby Kennedy. John Kennedy's supposed mistress Judith Exner, in her 1977 autobiography, also wrote about an affair that she said the president and Monroe had.

Journalist Anthony Summers examines the issue of Monroe's relationships with the Kennedy brothers at length in two books: his 1993 biography of FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, entitled "Official and Confidential: The Secret Life of J. Edgar Hoover", and his 1985 biography of Monroe, entitled "Goddess". In the Hoover book, Summers concludes that Monroe was in love with President Kennedy and wanted to marry him in the early 1960s. He writes that she called the White House often. According to his book, when the married President had to stop their affair, Monroe became even more depressed. Summers writes that Monroe then became involved with Robert Kennedy, who may have visited Monroe in Los Angeles about the time that she died.

Patricia Seaton Lawford, the fourth wife of actor Peter Lawford, also deals with the Monroe — Kennedy matters in her 1988 biography of Peter Lawford, entitled "The Peter Lawford Story". Lawford's first wife was Patricia Kennedy Lawford, the sister of John and Robert; Lawford was very close to the Kennedy family for over a decade, including the time of Monroe's death.

1948
"Every Baby Needs A Da Da Daddy,"
"Anyone Can See I Love You,"
"Ladies Of The Chorus"

1953
"Two Little Girls From Little Rock,"
"When Love Goes Wrong,"
"Bye Bye Baby,"
"Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend"

1954

1956

1959

1960

1962
"Happy Birthday Mr. President"






</doc>
<doc id="44133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44133" title="Eliot, Maine">
Eliot, Maine

Eliot is a American town in the state of Maine. The population was 5,954 at the 2000 census.

The schools in Eliot are a part of MSAD35. It is around an hour away from Boston.


</doc>
<doc id="44138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44138" title="Troodon">
Troodon

Troodon is a genus of relatively small, bird-like, meat-eating dinosaurs, from the later part of the Cretaceous period, 75–65 million years ago. The alternate spelling "Troödon" show that the 'o's are pronounced separately, as in 'zoology'

Discovered in central Montana in 1855, it was among the first dinosaurs found in North America. Its species ranged widely, with fossil remains recovered from as far north as Alaska, and the Judith River formation of Alberta, and as far south as Wyoming and even possibly Texas and New Mexico.

"Troodon" had a large brain in proportion to its body weight, and was very smart. It had a sickle claw, an enlarged and retractable second toe claw bone. "Troodon" had 122 teeth. The size and shape of the leg bones show that the "Troodon" would have been a fast runner. 
Troodon is thought to have been a predator like other theropods. This view is supported by its sickle claw on the foot and apparently good binocular vision.

"Troodon"'s size ranged widely. In general, individuals that lived further North were larger than those that lived in more Southern areas. "Troodons" in Alaska were especially large, up to 12 feet long, 5 feet tall, and weighing up to 175 pounds. Meanwhile, "Troodons" that lived in more Southern locations were only around 7 feet long, 3 feet tall, and weighed up to 50 pounds, about the size of a "Velociraptor". 

One of "Troodon"'s closest known relatives was a dinosaur called the "Anchiornis". When palaeontologists first found its fossil, they saw that it had been covered in feathers, just like a modern bird. Because "Troodon" is believed to have been the direct descendant of "Anchiornis", there is a possibility that it might also have had feathers. However, no fossil evidence for feathers in "Troodon" has been found, yet. If "Troodon" did have feathers, as some scientists believe, then, they probably resembled fur more than feathers. There is a modern bird, called the Kiwi, that has feathers which are very similar, in appearance, to those of extinct raptor dinosaurs, such as "Troodon". 

The genus now includes specimens previously classified as "Stenonychosaurus". 

Troodon nests full of eggs have been found in Montana. When scientists CAT-scanned them, they found baby Troodon skeleton embryos inside of them. They found skeletons of a small plant-eating dinosaur named "Orodromeus" with the eggs, as well as a skeleton of an adult Troodon. At first, it was believed that the eggs had belonged to the Orodromeus, and that the Troodon was there intending to rob the nest. 

However, it was later discovered that the eggs belonged to the Troodon when baby Troodon embryos were found inside the eggs. It is now believed that the adult Troodons had killed the Orodromeus and brought them back to feed their babies. Troodons laid up to 24 eggs in their nests which were earth mounds. They were able to lay two eggs at a time, so large clutches would take two weeks to lay.


</doc>
<doc id="44139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44139" title="Saurornithoides">
Saurornithoides

Saurornithoides was a fast running dinosaur from 79 million years ago. It was related to "Troodon". Its fossils have been found in Mongolia and China. Like its cousin "Troodon", "Saurornithoides" was an intelligent predator, with large eyes and good vision. "Saurornithoides" had a retractable, sickle-shaped claw on the second claw of each foot that it used for attacking prey. "Saurornithoides" probably fed on small prey, such as lizards, frogs, insects, and small mammals. It may also have hunted in packs to bring down other dinosaurs. "Saurornithoides" was discovered in the Gobi Desert on an expedition in the 1920's that was led by Roy Chapman Andrews. The dinosaurs "Velociraptor", "Protoceratops", and "Oviraptor" were also discovered during these expeditions to the Gobi Desert. It is so similar to "Troodon", that some paleontologists believe that it is the same dinosaur as "Troodon". If so, then the name "Troodon" would take priority, because it was coined first. 


</doc>
<doc id="44146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44146" title="Reining">
Reining

Reining is a competitive way of riding a horse. In reining, the horse performs spins, sliding stops, rollbacks and lead changes. Reining has twelve patterns the rider normally has to follow. The rider can perform freestyle where they make up their own pattern and ride it to music. This is all done under a western saddle.



</doc>
<doc id="44149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44149" title="Category:Cities in Maine">
Category:Cities in Maine


</doc>
<doc id="44157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44157" title="Category:Football stadiums in Germany">
Category:Football stadiums in Germany


</doc>
<doc id="44158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44158" title="Category:Football stadiums">
Category:Football stadiums


</doc>
<doc id="44159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44159" title="Rani of Jhansi">
Rani of Jhansi

Lakshmi Bai, the Rani of Jhansi ( 19 November 1835 – June 17 1858) was an Indian queen and warrior.Jhansi Ki Rani was born Manikarnika Tambe in a Marathi family which had emigrated to MP.After marriage Manu-bai became Laxmibai Newalkar.

She married Raja Gangadhar Rao, the Maharaja of Jhansi in 1842, and became the Rani of Jhansi. Before her marriage, she was known as Chabeeli because of her jolly ways. After the marriage she was given the name Lakshmi Bai.Rani Lakshmibai had a son but he died at the age of about 4 months. So, she and Gangadhar Rao adopted a son.His name was Anand, but they renamed him Damodar after their actual son. She was very brave and died fighting against British commander Sir Hugh Rose.She is considered a symbol of female bravery. She refused to bow down to the British imperialists. She was ready to sacrifice her life for the freedom of India.

Today, people not only living in Jhansi but all over India respect her and the sacrifice she made. She is a symbol of bravery and love for her country. Her sacrifice was not only for her kingdom, but for India and is remembered all over India. 'The Britishers can't rule us . And Mother India should never invade any country, is what I believe.' - Rani Lakshmi Bai.


</doc>
<doc id="44160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44160" title="Ukrainian hryvnia">
Ukrainian hryvnia

Hryvnia is the national currency of Ukraine.



</doc>
<doc id="44161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44161" title="Category:Currency">
Category:Currency

This is a list of articles dealing with the types currency in use in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="44165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44165" title="Chronos">
Chronos

Chronos is the Greek god of time. He was the second primordial god to be created. He controls the past, present, and future of everything. Without Chronos, the other Greek gods would have never been made.

He is not to be confused with the "Titan" Kronos aka Cronus


</doc>
<doc id="44173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44173" title="Speyer">
Speyer

Speyer (English formerly "Spires") is a city in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate with about 50.000 inhabitants on the Rhine river. It lies south of Ludwigshafen and Mannheim. Around the year 500 the town gets the name "Spira", named after the stream "Speyerbach" which flows into the Rhine river here.

The center of Speyer is dominated by the cathedral. Here are the tombs of several of the Salian emperors: the bodies, however, are believed to have gone missing during one of the French invasions during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. 



</doc>
<doc id="44176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44176" title="MediaWiki:Categorytree-header">
MediaWiki:Categorytree-header

Instructions: Click here to see the whole tree outline of all categories, showing all the articles in each subcategory you expand. You can click on [+] to expand any subcategory, or [-] to collapse it again. 

You can also just type the name of any category into the box on the left, then click "Show Tree", to see what subcategories are in it, and pick "all pages" from the list-box on the right side, to show what articles are now in each subcategory. 

"(Note: You need to have an advanced known as . If you have a very old browser, or have JavaScript turned off, it will not work.)"

</doc>
<doc id="44177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44177" title="MediaWiki:Categorytree-parents">
MediaWiki:Categorytree-parents

Subcategory of

</doc>
<doc id="44192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44192" title="Johann Wolfgang Goethe University of Frankfurt am Main">
Johann Wolfgang Goethe University of Frankfurt am Main

The Goethe University Frankfurt (German: "Goethe-Universität Frankfurt am Main") opened in 1914. With 38.000 students it belongs to the five largest universities in Germany and has the biggest library of them. The university has more than 600 teaching and researching professors; 16 faculties offer 170 courses of study.


</doc>
<doc id="44193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44193" title="Thayer Academy">
Thayer Academy

Thayer Academy is a private school that prepares people for college. It is in Braintree, Massachusetts. People from Grades 6–12 can become students there. The school was made in 1871, at the request of General Sylvanus Thayer. Thayer Academy is one of Greater Boston's most well respected private school's.




</doc>
<doc id="44194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44194" title="Siegfried">
Siegfried

Siegfried is a strong hero in the "Nibelungenlied", a epic poem written about the year 1200. He killed the dragon Fafnir and took its treasure, the "Nibelungenschatz". After killing the dragon, he bathed in its blood and so changed his skin, so that he could not be wounded any more.
But a leaf fell from a linden tree above while he was bathing and landed on his back, and the little patch of skin that it covered did not touch the dragon's blood, so that Siegfried remained vulnerable (he could be hurt) in that one spot. 

Siegfried wants to marry Kriemhild, the sister of Gunther, kin of the Burgundians in Worms. But before he is allowed to marry her he has to help Gunther to win against Brünhild, the queen of Iceland. He does it with the help of a cloak which lets him become invisible.

After their marriage Siegfried and Kriemhild live in Siegfried's kingdom for some years. Then they come to visit Worms and Kriemhild's family again. Brünhild, the wife of Gunther, and
Kriemhild argue about who is of higher rank. Now Kriemhild tells Brünhild that Siegfried helped Gunther in his fight against her and that he gave a proof of this victory to Kriemhild. Therefore Brünhild becomes so furious that she decides that Siegfried must be killed. This is done by Hagen, one of Gunther's men, while Siegfried is drinking from a well during a hunt in the Odenwald. Hagen also takes the treasure of Siegfried from Kriemhild and throws it into the Rhine.

The name Siegfried in German means "victory peace".

Siegfried appears in two of the four operas in Wagner's Ring cycle: the third opera is called "Siegfried" and the fourth one is called "Götterdämmerung" although originally Wagner called it "Siegfrieds Tod" ("The Death of Siegfried"). Wagner makes several changes to the story.


</doc>
<doc id="44195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44195" title="James II of England">
James II of England

James II of England/VII of Scotland (14 October 1633-16 September 1701) became King of Scots, King of England, and King of Ireland on 6 February 1685, and Duke of Normandy on 31 December 1660. He was the last Roman Catholic king of Scotland, England, or Ireland. Some of his citizens did not like his religious ideas, leading a group of them to disobey and fight against him. This was called the Glorious Revolution because no one was killed. He was not replaced by his Roman Catholic son, James Francis Edward, but by his Protestant daughter and son-in-law, Mary II and William III (William II of Scotland), who became rulers in 1689.

The belief that James, not William III or Mary II, was the one true ruler became known as Jacobitism (from Jacobus or Iacobus, Latin for James). James made one serious attempt to recover his throne when he landed in Ireland in 1689. After his defeat at the Battle of the Boyne in the summer of 1690, he returned to France, living the rest of his life under the protection of King Louis XIV. His son James Francis Edward Stuart (The Old Pretender) and his grandson Charles Edward Stuart (The Young Pretender and Bonnie Prince Charlie) attempted to restore the Jacobite line after James's death, but failed.

The issue listed are the children of James II who survived into adulthood. Illegitimate are not listed. 


</doc>
<doc id="44196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44196" title="Fichtelgebirge">
Fichtelgebirge

The Fichtelgebirge is a mountain range in northeastern Bavaria, Germany. It extends from the valley of the Red Main River to the Czech border, where it is continued by the much higher Ore Mountains.

The highest mountain is the Schneeberg (1051 m). Rivers rising from the Fichtelgebirge are the White Main (German: Weißer Main) , the Saxon Saale, the Ohře (German: Eger) and the Fichtelnaab which later joins the Waldnaab. Cities on the edge of the mountains include Bayreuth and Hof.

The mountains slope gradually away to the north and the south, but there is a steep slope to the west, where the Red Main forms the boundary of the mountains.

The Fichtelgebirge attracts many tourists both during summer and winter, mainly for hiking and skiing, but also to see the large rock formations.


</doc>
<doc id="44201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44201" title="Erzgebirge">
Erzgebirge

The Ore Mountains (German "Erzgebirge", Czech "Krušné hory") are a mountain range in Germany and the Czech Republic. They form the border between both countries for 150 km, extending from the western border of Saxony to the Elbe river.
The Ore Mountains are famous for many Christmas traditions. As the ores silver and tin were not found any more in the mines, former miners had to look for new ways to feed their families. In addition to lace making and weaving, the inhabitants went into wood carving. Nutcrackers, "smoking men", "pyramids" (carousels with figures of the Christmas story or from mining) and "Schwibbogen" (wooden arcs with candles in the windows, symbolising the opening of a mine) are some of many Christmas goods made in the Ore Mountains. "Seiffen" in the East Ore Mountains was a centre of the wooden toy industry.


</doc>
<doc id="44202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44202" title="Manifest">
Manifest

To manifest something means to show it, or to make it clear or to make it known. For example, if something is "made manifest", it is made understandable or if something is a manifestation, it is where something hidden or unavailable is made physical or knowable.

</doc>
<doc id="44208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44208" title="Henry IV of England">
Henry IV of England

Henry IV (April 3 1367 – March 20 1413) was a king of England. He was born at Bolingbroke Castle in Lincolnshire, which is why he was often called "Henry Bolingbroke". 

His father, John of Gaunt, was the third son of King Edward III, and had a lot of power in the reign of King Richard II.

Henry and Thomas de Mowbray, 1st Duke of Norfolk argued in 1398. King Richard ordered Henry to live outside England for ten years (with the approval of Henry's father, John of Gaunt) but Thomas de Mowbray was exiled from England for life.

The next year John of Gaunt died, and Richard would not allow Henry to inherit Gaunt's land. Instead, Henry had to ask for the lands from Richard. 

Henry met with the exiled Thomas Arundel, former Archbishop of Canterbury. Henry and Arundel returned to England while Richard was on a military campaign in Ireland. 

With Arundel as his advisor, Henry Bolingbroke began a military campaign, took land from those who opposed him and ordering his soldiers to destroy much of Cheshire.

Henry gained enough power and support to have himself declared King Henry IV. He imprisoned King Richard (who mysteriously died in prison) and by-passing Richard’s seven-year-old heir presumptive Edmund de Mortimer. 

Henry was crowned on 13 October, 1399. It was the first time since the Norman Conquest in 1066 that the monarch made a public speech in English. Henry consulted with Parliament frequently, but was sometimes at odds with them, especially over religious matters. On Arundel's advice, Henry was the first English king to allow the burning of heretics, mainly to suppress the Lollard movement.


</doc>
<doc id="44210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44210" title="Thalassodromeus">
Thalassodromeus

Thalassodromeus was a pterosaur found in northern Brazil. It was 60 cms long and had a wingspan of 1 metre.


</doc>
<doc id="44211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44211" title="Oratorio">
Oratorio

An oratorio is a piece of music for orchestra, choir and solo singers. It usually tells a story from the Old Testament. An oratorio may be about two hours long: a whole concert. It is rather like an opera, but whereas an opera is acted out in costume on a stage, an oratorio is sung and played in a concert hall or church. The oratorio as we know it was created in the 18th century. The words were normally in the composer’s own language, not in Italian like most operas were at that time.

The word "oratorio" had been used many centuries ago for music-dramas performed in churches in western Europe. In Italy oratorios and operas were both being composed in the 17th century. In Germany composers like Heinrich Schutz and, later, Johann Sebastian Bach were writing Passions which tell the story of the crucifixion. These are not usually called “oratorios” but they are similar.

The first important composer of oratorios was George Frideric Handel. Handel, who was born in Germany, had become English. Handel had written a lot of operas, but in 1732 he started to write oratorios instead and quite suddenly people became very interested in oratorios. He used the same sort of music as in his operas: the work would start with an overture (an introduction on the orchestra) and then there would be recitative (the bits that told the story), arias (songs for the solo singers) and choruses for the choir. The chorus was very important in oratorios: they got more to sing than in most operas. This meant that choral societies became very popular, and this tradition spread from England (where Handel lived) to other countries in Europe. Handel’s most famous oratorio is "Messiah". Unlike most of his other oratorios, the story is not from the Old Testament. It tells the story of the birth, life and death of Jesus. In Britain Handel’s "Messiah" is traditionally performed around Christmas. Other oratorios by Handel include: "Deborah", "Saul", "Samson", "Judas Maccabaeus" and "Solomon". Handel composed all these oratorios to English texts.

In the 19th century the oratorio was very popular. At the turn of the century Joseph Haydn wrote some of his best music in his two oratorios: "Die Schöpfung" ("The Creation") (1798) and "Die Jahreszeiten" ("The Seasons") (1801). Mendelssohn wrote "St Paul", "Elijah" and the "Hymn of Praise". Dvořák, Berlioz and Gounod are among the most important Romantic composers of oratorio, and in the 20th century famous oratorios include Elgar’s "Dream of Gerontius" (1900), Walton’s "Belshazzar’s Feast" (1931) and Tippett’s "Child of our Time" (1941).


</doc>
<doc id="44213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44213" title="Pterodactylus">
Pterodactylus

Pterodactylus was a small pterosaur or flying reptile. It lived in the later Jurassic period, at the same time as many dinosaurs. "Pterodactylus" is typical of the short-tailed pterosaurs, a sub-order which continued to the end of the Cretaceous. The first specimens were found at Solnhofen in Bavaria, Germany. These carbonate strata formed in warm lagoons also yielded the famous "Archaeopteryx". "Pterodactylus" may have lived on small islands in the lagoon, or on the coast. 


</doc>
<doc id="44214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44214" title="Template:Uw-copyright1">
Template:Uw-copyright1


</doc>
<doc id="44217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44217" title="Rutiodon">
Rutiodon

Rutiodon was a type of phytosaur. Phytosaurs were crocodile-like animals that lived during the time of dinosaurs. It was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" trying to catch a Coelophysis. It jumped out of the water. and roared without warning.


</doc>
<doc id="44234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44234" title="When Dinosaurs Roamed America">
When Dinosaurs Roamed America

When Dinosaurs Roamed America is a 2001 television movie from the Discovery Channel. The movie is narrated by John Goodman. This movie tells us about species of dinosaurs that lived in North America through the ages of the Mesozoic era. The backgrounds of the movie are real places of America.








</doc>
<doc id="44235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44235" title="Category:Bahá'í Faith">
Category:Bahá'í Faith

These pages are about the Bahá'í Faith.


</doc>
<doc id="44236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44236" title="Cigar">
Cigar

A cigar is a form in which tobacco is smoked. It is usually larger than a cigarette. Cigars are made of different types of tobacco which are cured in many different way to produce unique flavors and fragrances. Most quality cigars are rolled using a tobacco leaf, though more and more cigars have been rolled using different types of paper to replace the tobacco leaf. This results in a cleaner looking cigar. Commercially produced cigars are rolled and packed using machinery, and quality control and smokeability cannot be truly verified. Hand rolled cigars prove to still be the best option, but are more costly. 
Cuba is known world wide for their cigars. Many other countries also produce cigars, most notably in the central America and Caribbean island areas.


</doc>
<doc id="44238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44238" title="Bahá'u'lláh">
Bahá'u'lláh

Bahá'u'lláh, which means "Glory of God", was a Persian nobleman who founded the religion known as the Bahá'í Faith. He was born in the city of Tehran, in Persia, in 1817. 

His followers consider him a messenger of God.



</doc>
<doc id="44239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44239" title="`Abdu'l-Bahá">
`Abdu'l-Bahá

`Abdu'l-Bahá was a Persian man who was born on May 23, 1844 and died on November 28, 1921. His father was Bahá'u'lláh who founded the religion known as the Bahá'í Faith. 

`Abdu'l-Bahá spent most of his adult life in prison or under arrest, because of his father's new religion. Bahá'u'lláh called him the "Expounder" of his word, meaning that only `Abdu'l-Bahá had the right to say what Bahá'u'lláh's writings mean. This was to prevent different people from splitting the religion up because they thought Bahá'u'lláh meant different things, the way many other religions have split up.


</doc>
<doc id="44240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44240" title="Shoghi Effendi">
Shoghi Effendi

Shoghi Effendi (1 March 1897-4 November 1957) was a Persian man. He was the great-grandson of Bahá'u'lláh who founded the religion known as the Bahá'í Faith. 
After Bahá'u'lláh died, Shoghi Effendi's grandfather, `Abdu'l-Bahá lead the Bahá'ís. `Abdu'l-Bahá died, he left a "will and testament" that said that Shoghi Effendi was the "Guardian", and that his job was to guard and lead the Bahá'í Faith. `Abdu'l-Bahá's will said that only Shoghi Effendi could interpret `Abdu'l-Bahá's or Bahá'u'lláh's books and letters. This was to prevent different people from splitting the religion up because they thought Bahá'u'lláh or `Abdu'l-Bahá meant different things, the way many other religions have split up.


</doc>
<doc id="44241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44241" title="Will (law)">
Will (law)

A will or testament is a legal document that explains the last wishes of someone after they die. A person writes a will and testament before they die, and usually writes what they want to happen to their money and their things after they die. It is sometimes called a "last will and testament".


</doc>
<doc id="44247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44247" title="Uhlan">
Uhlan

Uhlan is the name for a type of Polish soldier of light cavalry, armed with lance (a kind of spear). The respect for such Polish troops caused that in the beginning of the 19th century great part of European armies created similar military units. In most European armies, the units of that kind took the name of lancers. In the Russian, Austrian, and German armies, the units of Polish lancers had kept the original name of Uhlans. 


</doc>
<doc id="44253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44253" title="Not">
Not

The word not negates the meaning of the word or phrase following it.



</doc>
<doc id="44255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44255" title="Chin">
Chin

The chin is the bottom part of the face. It is under the mouth and is the forward part of the jaw. Chins can be larger or smaller, depending on the person. Even though chin sizes change a lot, 
it is usually further forward than the rest of the face in Humans, unless there is a problem.


</doc>
<doc id="44259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44259" title="Anne of Great Britain">
Anne of Great Britain

Anne of Great Britain (6 February 1665 - 1 August 1714) became Queen of England, Scotland, and Ireland on 8 March 1702. On 1 May 1707, when England and Scotland combined into a single kingdom, Anne became the first sovereign of the Kingdom of Great Britain.


</doc>
<doc id="44260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44260" title="Kind">
Kind

Kind has different meanings:



</doc>
<doc id="44261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44261" title="Knot">
Knot

A knot is a fixed looping of a piece of string or rope. Knots are often used for binding things together. While a knot is often made from rope, it can also be made from many other things. In fact, a knot is actually the condition a long flexible object is in. For example, hair can be tied in a knot. The ends of balloons are tied in a knot to prevent the air from escaping. The average person over 5 or so years of age is likely capable of tying a knot; most of these knots people tie are probably with their shoelaces. Ribbons are also tied in a knot so as to appear pretty, as when wrapped around a gift. In addition, knots are also made by sailors in many different forms and for many different purposes. There are even people who have adopted knot-making as a hobby.



</doc>
<doc id="44263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44263" title="Flensburg">
Flensburg

Flensburg (Danish: "Flensborg", Low Saxon: "Flensborg", North Frisian: "Flansborj") is a city in Germany, next to the border to Denmark. There are about 87,000 people living in Flensburg. The city has an university and a small marine harbour. It lives on tourism, students and the German marine forces.

There was a first settlement about 1200 A.D., which became a city in 1284. In the following century, Flensburg became economic centre of the Duchy of Schleswig. In 1409 there were battles between people of the Duchy of Holstein and the Danish crown about the control of Schleswig. In 1412 and 1500 there were bad plagues in Flensburg. In 1485, there was a big fire in the city.

Between 1460 and 1864 was Flensburg the second important harbour to Denmark after Copenhagen. Since the 16th century Flensburg was an important place for trade. Flensburg became a part of Prussia in 1864, after the Danish-Pussian War.

In 1920, there was an election in Schleswig. The vote was to decide if the people wanted to belong to Denmark or Germany. South of Flensburg and Flensburg wanted to stay in Germany, north of Flensburg the people decides to became Dans.

In 1945, many German were driven out their homes in the eastern German provinces. These people went to Flensburg. The city had more than 100,000 inhabitants for a couple of years. Nowadays Flensburg has about 87,000 inhabitants.


</doc>
<doc id="44264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44264" title="Category:Cities in Schleswig-Holstein">
Category:Cities in Schleswig-Holstein


</doc>
<doc id="44265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44265" title="Category:Cities in Brandenburg">
Category:Cities in Brandenburg


</doc>
<doc id="44266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44266" title="Category:Cities in Lower Saxony">
Category:Cities in Lower Saxony


</doc>
<doc id="44267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44267" title="Goslar">
Goslar

Goslar is a historic city in Germany. It has about 43,000 inhabitants.

The German Emperor Henry I founded Goslar in 922. In the 11th century Goslar became seat of a Pfalz, a temporary seat of the Emperor. In 1253 Goslar became a Free City (that means without being ruled a Duke) in the Holy Roman Empire and joined the Hanseatic League.

Henry 4th a Holy Roman Emperor came from Goslar.

In the Thirty-year War Goslar belonged to the loyalists of the Emperor, although its territory belonged to a Protestant region. The Swedish King Gustav II Adolph punished Goslar for supporting the imperial forces. After 1642 Goslar came under the rule of the Welfs.

In 1803 Goslar lost its status as a Free City and belonged to Prussia. Napoleon made Goslar a part of the Kingdom of Westphalia. After the Napoleonic Wars it became part of the Kingdom of Hanover.

In the 19th century Goslar lost its economic base. Now it lives mainly on tourism.


</doc>
<doc id="44272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44272" title="Category:Syndromes">
Category:Syndromes


</doc>
<doc id="44273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44273" title="Category:Genetic disorders">
Category:Genetic disorders


</doc>
<doc id="44283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44283" title="Template:User !">
Template:User !

<td>

</doc>
<doc id="44285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44285" title="Template:User tl">
Template:User tl

<includeonly> </includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="44288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44288" title="Anonymous">
Anonymous

Anonymous is a group that supports the freedom of speech. They do protests in places where those in power appear to be corrupt and take down websites from orginizations that they perceive to be limiting the freedom of speech.


</doc>
<doc id="44294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44294" title="MTV">
MTV

MTV (music television) is an American cable television network. They are based in New York. The channel launched on August 1, 1981. and used to only show music videos. The first music video shown on MTV was "Video Killed the Radio Star" by the Buggles. Today, the channel show many different television programs aimed at adolescents and young adults.




</doc>
<doc id="44297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44297" title="Bundesautobahn 45">
Bundesautobahn 45

The Bundesautobahn 45 ("in German: A 45"), is a Motorway from the Ruhr area till Hanau.

The highway begins in Dortmund, North Rhine-Westphalia and crosses Hesse. The A 45 ends in Bavaria.



List incomplete


</doc>
<doc id="44299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44299" title="A.F.C. Ajax">
A.F.C. Ajax

Amsterdamsche Football Club Ajax (Ajax Amsterdam, AFC Ajax, or simply Ajax) is a football club from Amsterdam, Netherlands. They play in the Eredivisie, which is the highest football competition in The Netherlands. Players like Johan Cruijff, Van Basten, Rijkaard and Litmanen played for this club. 

The club was founded on March 18, 1900. The founders were Floris Stempel, Carel Reeser and Johan Dade. It was the second attempt to found Ajax. In 1894 they tried it too.
Ajax is named after the mythological hero Ajax the Great.

Ajax promoted to the highest level in 1911. Their coach was Jack Kirwan. Because Sparta Rotterdam had almost the same kit (clothes), they had to change it. 


The name of the stadium is Amsterdam ArenA and has an attendance (which means the amount of seats) of about 52.000. The Amsterdam ArenA was opened on 14 August 1996 by Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands. Their previous stadium was named De Meer. 


</doc>
<doc id="44303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44303" title="Fungicide">
Fungicide

A fungicide is a poison. It is used to kill fungi that are considered unwanted.


</doc>
<doc id="44306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44306" title="Chad Kroeger">
Chad Kroeger

Chad Robert Turton (better known as Chad Kroeger) is a Canadian singer and guitarist for the rock band, Nickelback. He was born November 15, 1974, in Hanna, Alberta, Canada. Nickelback consists of four band members. Chad Kroeger (Vocals, Lead Guitar), Mike Kroeger (Bass Guitar), Ryan Peake (Rhythm Guitar) and Daniel Adair (Drums).


</doc>
<doc id="44309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44309" title="Consecutive integer">
Consecutive integer

Consecutive integers are integers that follow each other in order. They have a difference of 1 between every two numbers. In a set of consecutive integers, the mean and the median are equal.

If "n" is an integer, then "n", "n"+1, and "n"+2 will be consecutive integers.

"Examples:"

1, 2, 3, 4, 5

−3, −2, −1, 0, 1, 2

1004, 1005, 1006

Odd consecutive integers are odd integers that follow each other. They have a difference of 2 between every two numbers.

If "n" is an integer, then 2"n"+1, 2"n"+3, and 2"n"+5 will be odd consecutive integers.

"Examples:"

3, 5, 7, 9

−23, −21, −19, −17, −15, −13, −11

Even consecutive integers are even integers that follow each other. They have a difference of 2 between every two numbers.

If "n" is an integer, then 2"n", 2"n"+2, and 2"n"+4 will be even consecutive integers.

"Examples:" 

4, 6, 8, 10

−2, 0, 2, 4, 6

−120, −118, −116


</doc>
<doc id="44311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44311" title="Beowulf (hero)">
Beowulf (hero)

Beowulf is the hero of the Anglo-Saxon poem "Beowulf". He was the son of Ecgþeow, a banished warrior of the Wægmundings. Ecgþeow had killed a man from another clan and had to flee to the Danes. The Danish king Hroðgar accepted him as one of his warriors.

When king Hroðgar came into difficulties because his land was raided by the giant Grendel, Ecgþeow's son Beowulf came to help him with twelve warriors. During the night, Grendel arrived to attack the sleeping men. Beowulf attacked him without his sword and tore the arm off the beast. Grendel flew and his arm was fixed to the wall. During the following night Grendel's Mother arrived and Beowulf had an even harder fight against her, but he won.

There have been many ficton books and films made based on "Beowulf". Beowulf appeared in most of them. 


</doc>
<doc id="44312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44312" title="Clan">
Clan

A clan is a group of people who - following a tradition - belong to the same kin. 

The easiest way to describe them is as sub-groups of tribes. Usually they form groups of 7000 to 10,000 people. 


</doc>
<doc id="44313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44313" title="Muon-catalyzed fusion">
Muon-catalyzed fusion

Muon-catalyzed fusion (μCF) is a type of cold nuclear fusion, which means that nuclear fusion can happen at low temperatures and under normal pressure. There need to be 3 particles: a muon, a positively charged triton and a positively charged deuteron. The muon, which has a greater mass (when its not moving) than an electron, drags the heavier triton and the deuteron to it, creating something called a muonic heavy hydrogen ion. This means that the particle is a hydrogen atom with more protons then electrons, that contains a muon, and that contains extra neutrons which make it heavier. This reaction can be done at room temperature or below, such as -270 degrees Celsius.

To create these, a stream of negative muons is sent onto blocks of protium, deuterium and tritium (3 first isotopes of hydrogen). The muon bumps out the electron in the hydrogen atom. Because the electron is replaced, any 2 atoms are bound together. This makes a molecular ion, also called a special muonic molecule. A muon is 207 times more massive then an electron. Because of the difference in mass, the atom changes. Because it is heavier, the atoms in the molecular ion are pressed very tightly together, and then the nuclei, the centers of the atoms, join together. The following process is called nuclear fusion. The 2 nuclei join together and "glue" together. But, their weights do not just add up, a part of their mass is released as energy. This is the energy used. 

Now, the process continues because the muon is thrown out of the nuclei when they fuse, so it can join other nuclei, which continues the reaction. Sometimes the muon is attached to something else thrown out from the nucleus, and the muon is lost. This stops the reaction. 

The good thing about this is that muon-catalyzed fusion uses little energy, and produces much energy. The only problem is that the reaction is not stable, so it does not last a long time, because the muons are lost. This process is still a long way from being used for business.


</doc>
<doc id="44323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44323" title="Nomadic people">
Nomadic people

Nomadic people (or nomads) are people who move from place to place, rather than living in one place. The best known examples of nomads are gypsies, Roma, Sinti, Irish travellers and academic postdocs. Many other ethnic groups and communities are traditionally nomadic; such as Berbers, Kazakhs, Samis and Bedouin.

People are nomads for many reasons. Most nomads are husbandmen herding their livestock, such as cattle, horses or reindeer from pasture to pasture. These people have to change places according to the weather. Other nomads are traders and craftsmen (people who make things) traveling to exchange goods or to practice their craft where it is needed.

Nomads who follow their herds usually live in movable with few things inside, like Mongols. Nomads who trade or practice crafts usually have wagons in which they travel, because wagons are better for carrying goods.


</doc>
<doc id="44324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44324" title="Geodesic dome">
Geodesic dome

A geodesic dome is a type of building that looks like half a ball shape (like half a soccer ball). It often is made of glass, concrete, or steel. It was first created by Buckminster Fuller.


</doc>
<doc id="44331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44331" title="Coprolalia">
Coprolalia

Coprolalia is a condition that affects about 15% of people with Tourette syndrome. Someone with coprolalia will use words that make people feel uncomfortable so often that it is hard to control. This is often in the form of a stream of curse words.

People who have Tourette syndrome are not the only people who experience coprolalia. For example, it can happen in people who have had a stroke, or who have schizophrenia.


</doc>
<doc id="44332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44332" title="Billy Talent">
Billy Talent

Billy Talent, before called Pezz, is a Canadian band. They performed and recorded together for about 10 years before becoming famous. 





</doc>
<doc id="44338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44338" title="Don Cheadle">
Don Cheadle

Don Cheadle (November 29, 1964) is an American actor. He was born in Kansas City, Missouri.

Some of the movies he was in are:


</doc>
<doc id="44339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44339" title="Massospondylus">
Massospondylus

Massospondylus was a dinosaur from 200 million years ago, from the Upper Triassic to the Lower Jurassic periods.


</doc>
<doc id="44349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44349" title="MIRC">
MIRC

mIRC is a popular shareware Internet Relay Chat (IRC) client for Microsoft Windows. It was created in 1995 by Khaled Mardam-Bey in C. Its most recent update (6.35) was made in 2008. It is licensed as Proprietary. It comes free of charge for 30 days and then you have the choice to have it for $20 USD.




</doc>
<doc id="44350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44350" title="For Dummies">
For Dummies

The ...for dummies is a series of books that try to explain something very simply. The series was created in 1991 by Dan Gookin. The first book was about the computer operating system MS-DOS. Dan Gookin created the book, because in 1987 a person wanted a book that was simple and easy to read, as the person considered computer books to be dull at that time. After MS-DOS for dummies, came PC's for Dummies by Gookin, and Andy Rathbone. Other popular ...For Dummies books are The Internet for Dummies by John Levine, Carol Baroudi, and Margaret Levine Young, and Beginning Programming for Dummies by Wallace Wang.

http://www.dummies.com


</doc>
<doc id="44353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44353" title="The Source (Charmed)">
The Source (Charmed)

The Source is a fictional character in the television series "Charmed". The Source of All Evil is vanquished by the Power of Three in the fourth season of the show. Cole Turner (Phoebe's fiancee) takes his place as the ruler of the Underworld. Once he is killed, the Charmed Ones are free.


</doc>
<doc id="44354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44354" title="Takasaki line">
Takasaki line

The Takasaki line (Japanese:高崎線) is a 74.7 kilometer railway line that runs from Omiya station in Saitama Prefecture to Takasaki Station in Gunma Prefecture. It runs diagonally from south to north in Saitama prefecture and is owed and operated by East Japan Railway Company (JR East Japan). The national highway route 17 and its historical predecessor Nakasendo run near this line.
The fare between Takasaki and Omiya of the Takasaki line is 1280 yen.
The colors of the cars are green and orange. So it looks similar to the Utsunomiya line.
The maximum speed of this train 120 k/hr. So it is possible to go Takasaki from Omiya in about an hour and a half.
The Takasaki line including local trains and rapid trains has generally six standard-runs per hour in daytime. According to the time, the train might be crowded with students and company employees in major cities, for example, Ageo, Okegawa, Kitamoto, Kounosu, Kumagaya, Fukaya, Honjo.


</doc>
<doc id="44355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44355" title="Red Panda">
Red Panda

The Red Panda ("Ailurus fulgens") is a mammal. It is the only species of the Ailuridae family. There are two subspecies: "Ailurus fulgens fulgens" and "Ailurus fulgens styani". 

Most that are bred at Japanese zoos are "Ailurus fulgens styani". They are called レッサーパンダ in Japan and 小熊貓 (xiǎo xìong māo ) in China, both literally translating to english as "small bear cat".

The Red Panda lives in the southern part of China, Sikkim, Nepal, and the Himalaya mountains in high trees. In the Indian state of Sikkim it is the state animal.

Red Pandas are about 50-60 centimeters long. They weigh between three to five kilograms. They have chestnut colored hair, and their faces have white designs. They eat fruits, roots, bamboo shoots, acorns, and insects. They are active at night and sleep on trees in the daytime. They act alone, not in groups. 

In recent years, more zoos in Japan are breeding Red Pandas. They have become popular for how they look. 

A Red Panda which is famous is Futa-Kun. Surprisingly, he can stand on his two rear legs.


</doc>
<doc id="44357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44357" title="Category:Belgian people">
Category:Belgian people


</doc>
<doc id="44363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44363" title="Refraction">
Refraction

Refraction is the change in direction of a wave, caused by the change in the wave's speed. Examples of waves include sound waves and light waves. Refraction is seen most often when a wave passes from a medium to a different medium. Different types of medium include air and water. When a wave passes from one medium to another medium, the wave will change its speed and its direction. For example, when a light wave travels through air and then passes through water, the wave's speed will slow down and it will change direction.

An example of how refraction works is placing a straw in a cup of water, with part of the straw in the water. When looking at a certain angle, the straw appears to bend at the water's surface. This is because of the bending of light rays as they move between the air and the water.

A good and simple way to understand how light works is to think of it like a car. When the car hits the gravel surface (this is the medium) on an angle, the tire that hits it first will lock up, causing it to turn in that direction. Therefore, if light hits a medium on the right greater than its optical density, it will bend right.

When light refracts in a prism, it splits into colours of the rainbow.


</doc>
<doc id="44373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44373" title="Psychedelic mushroom">
Psychedelic mushroom

Psychedelic mushrooms is the name given to certain kinds of mushrooms. They contain the alkaloid psilocybin and other related tryptamine derivatives. Psilocybin changes certain things in the brain. This leads to the nerve cells giving more signals - generally translated to a different consciousness. This can lead to effects like hallucinations or visions. They can also be used for medical purposes to treat cluster headaches, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and certain kinds of depression.

Physiologically, they do not harm the human body, and can be used to treat cluster headaches and other medical conditions. Some psychological problems are possible from use, but not likely or common. 

Psilocybin can kill in extremely high doses. The LD<sub>50</sup> of Psilocybin is 280 mg/kg for rats, this is about 1.5 times that of caffeine. In normal psychedelic mushrooms, psilocybin makes up about 1% of their weight. Therefore, nearly 1.7 kilograms of dried mushrooms, or 17 kilograms of fresh mushrooms, would be required for a 60kg person to reach the 280mg/kg LD50 rate of rats.


</doc>
<doc id="44378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44378" title="Category:Oceanic countries">
Category:Oceanic countries

Oceanic countries are island countries found in the Pacific Ocean.


</doc>
<doc id="44379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379" title="Category:North American countries">
Category:North American countries

North American countries include all countries considered Central American as well as the Caribbean Island nations.


</doc>
<doc id="44380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44380" title="Category:South America">
Category:South America


</doc>
<doc id="44381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44381" title="Category:North America">
Category:North America


</doc>
<doc id="44383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44383" title="Category:Unrecognized countries">
Category:Unrecognized countries


</doc>
<doc id="44402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44402" title="Harold Godwinson">
Harold Godwinson

Harold Godwinson or King Harold II of England (c. 1022 – 14 October 1066) was an English king. He ruled England after king Edward the Confessor died. He ruled from 5 January 1066 until he was killed at the Battle of Hastings. Harold Godwinson was killed, it is generally assumed, by an arrow shot by one of William's archers, but some reports say he was cut down by many soldiers. Before Harold Godwinson became king, he swore to William, Duke of Normandy, that he would help him become king. Harold Godwinson had three brothers Tostig, Swegen and Gryth. He also had a sister called Edith. She was married to the king so he was his brother-in-law. He claimed to have been made King by Edward the confessor.

Harold Godwinson has a powerful background that perhaps allows historians to think him as rightful King for those times. His father was Godwin, the powerful Earl of Wessex- and his mother was also from a rich and noble house. His sister, Edith, was married to the King before him- Edward the Confessor. Also, when Godwin died, Harold inherited his earldom as well as being knighted Earl of East Anglia and Earl of Hereford. Now Wessex was, in those days, an enormous amount of land that covered about a third of England. Having added the lands of East Anglia and Hereford, Harold ruled over a large portion of England, making him the most powerful man in the whole kingdom, after the King. He should have been king.


</doc>
<doc id="44404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44404" title="Spanish Armada">
Spanish Armada

The Spanish Armada was a Spanish navy fleet most famous for being used by Spain's King Philip II to attack Britain in 1588. It was defeated by the Royal Navy of England under command of Sir Francis Drake during queen Elizabeth I's reign. It started on 12 July 1588 and ended during August 1588.

The Armada was led by the Duke of Medina Sidonia, who had no naval experience. He replaced the original commander, who died in February.

The defeat of the armada is often attributed to a severe storm which scattered the spanish vessels prior to their engagement of the British fleet, meaning they could not utilise vastly superior numbers to their advantage as planned. The British only had 55 ships.

Another key element in the action were the superior ships used by the British as the oarred spanish galleons had inferior maneuvrability and could have their sweeps shorn off completely by a heavy vessel sailing past in close proximity. The galleons were also considerably smaller than the British privateers, meaning they carried less guns.

The morale and dedication of the British sailors was high, buoyed by the famous speech by Queen Elizabeth and national loyalty, and led by experienced captains who had years of naval battles behind them.
Phillip died in 1598 with fever.

However, even though the English sailors had done so well, they didn't get paid and were made to stay on their ships and 'Guard' in case there was another spanish attack. 


</doc>
<doc id="44406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44406" title="Frank Griswold">
Frank Griswold

Frank Tracy Griswold III (born 18 September 1937) was the 25th Presiding Bishop and Primate of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America.

Griswold went to school at St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire and earned an A.B. in English literature from Harvard College (1959). He attended the General Theological Seminary and earned his B.A. and M.A, in theology from Oriel College, Oxford University (1962, 1966). Griswold became a priest in 1963. After bocoming a priest he became a priest in Pennsylvania. He worked at three churches there. Frank Griswold was the bishop of Chicago from 1987 until he became presiding bishop in 1997.

Currently, Griswold is a member of the Joint Standing Committee of the Primates of the Anglican Communion and the Anglican Consultative Council. He was co-chair of the Anglican-Roman Catholic International Commission from 1998 to 2003, and a member of the standing committee for the 1998 Lambeth Conference. He has also served on diocesan, national and international committees for liturgy, worship and ecumenism. He is also a member of the The Fellowship of Saint John.

His term as presiding bishop ended on November first 2006. He was replaced by the Rt. Rev. Katharine Jefferts Schori. She was elected by the General Convention of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America.


</doc>
<doc id="44408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44408" title="Sun">
Sun

The Sun is seen in the sky and makes light. When the Sun is in the sky, it is day. When the Sun is not in the sky it is night. The Sun is the star at the centre of the Solar System. The planets, including Earth, go around it.

The Sun gives off energy as electromagnetic radiation. That includes light, infra-red energy (heat), ultraviolet light and radio waves. It also gives off a stream of particles, which reaches Earth as 'solar wind'. The source of all this energy is the reaction in the star which turns hydrogen into helium and makes huge amounts of energy.

The Sun is an average star, like many others in our galaxy, the Milky Way. It has existed for a little over 4.5 billion years, and is going to continue for at least as long again.. 

Our Sun makes up 99.86% of the matter in the solar system. Even the giant planet Jupiter is tiny compared to the Sun. The planets in our solar system move around the Sun in orbits. Our Sun can be seen in the sky in the day time. It is seen as a large yellow ball. The Sun is basically a very, very large ball of plasma bubbling with non-stop explosions. These explosions give off so much energy that if we could gather all the Sun's energy for one second it would be enough to power the U.S.for 9 million years. Even though the Sun is 93 million miles (150 million km) from the earth, we still feel this energy. 

The Sun is so bright that it can hurt to look at it and can damage human eyesight, so one should never stare at the Sun, and should never use binoculars or a telescope to look at it. The Sun makes light, heat and the solar wind. Solar wind moves past the earth outside its atmosphere. It is made of plasma and small particles that fly away from the Sun all the way as far as Neptune. The Sun is the main source of energy for life on Earth. It is no wonder that for ancient peoples, the Sun was an object of worship.

The Sun is at the middle of our solar system. Each planet travels in a more-or-less round orbit with the Sun in the center. Each planet orbits at a different distance from the Sun. The orbits of the planets are not perfect circles. They are closed-curves called ellipses. The planets closest to the Sun get more heat. Planets farther away are colder. Only the earth has a climate that is right for humans.

Almost all life on our planet ultimately depends on the light energy that comes from our Sun. Plants use solar energy as food so they can grow. This process is called photosynthesis, the green in the leaves is a pigment which is called chlorophyll.

In the center of the Sun, in its core, great heat and pressure combine hydrogen gas into helium gas which produces large amounts of energy. This is called "nuclear fusion".

People can look at the Sun if they use special lenses that make it safe. When they do this, darker spots are sometimes seen on the surface of the Sun; these spots are called "Sunspots". The number of Sunspots on the Sun gets bigger and then smaller in a cycle of about 11 years. These Sunspots affect the weather on Earth and can also affect electronics. A solar storm in 1989 shut down the electric power grid in Quebec and put the entire province in darkness for nine hours.

Scientists think that the Sun started from a very large cloud of dust and small bits of ice 4.6 billion years ago. At the center of that huge cloud, some of the material started to build up into a ball. Once this ball got big enough, reactions inside it caused that ball to shine.

At that point, the Sun blew away all the rest of the cloud from itself, and the planets formed from the rest of this cloud.

At its core, or very center, hydrogen atoms collide together at great temperature and pressure so that they fuse to form atoms of helium. This process is called nuclear fusion. This fusion changes a very small part of the hydrogen atoms into a large amount of energy. This energy then travels from the core to the surface of the Sun, called the photosphere, where it shines into space. Energy can take thousands of years to reach the Sun's surface because the Sun is so huge and most of the way it is passed from atom to atom along the way.

If the Sun is viewed through a very special telescope, dark areas known as Sunspots can be seen. These areas are caused by the Sun's magnetic field. The Sunspots only look dark because the rest of the Sun is very bright.

This is a cycle of 11 years, and every 11 years, there are more Sunspots on the Sun than in the past or future years. Between these 11 years, Sunspots may decrease in number. This cycle has been around since about the 1700s; before that was the Maunder Minimum, a few hundred years where there were very few Sunspots. Astronomers do not know what caused this.

Some space telescopes, like the ones that orbit the Sun have seen huge arches that extend from the Sun. These are called solar prominences. Solar prominences come in many different shapes and sizes; some of them are so large that the Earth could fit inside of them, and there are a few shaped like hands.

There are three different layers that make up the atmosphere of the Sun.

This is the surface of the Sun. The light that the Earth receives from the Sun is radiated from this layer. Below this layer, the Sun is opaque, or not transparent to light.

This is the layer of which the Sun's rays "shine". It can be best seen during a solar eclipse

Sometimes, the Sun "disappears" from the sky, and all that people see is a black but shining ball. This is because the Moon has moved right in front of the Sun and blocks almost all of its light. These happen almost every year, and very similar solar eclipses happen every 18 years, 11.3 days; a period called the Saros.

Scientists called astrophysicists say our Sun is a main-sequence star in the middle of its life. In about another 4-5 billion years, they think it will get bigger and become a red giant star. The Sun would be up to 250 times its current size, as big as 1.4 AU and will swallow up the earth.

Earth's fate is still a bit of a mystery. Previous calculations show that Earth could escape to a higher orbit. This due to the solar wind, which drops 30% of the Sun's mass, But a newer study shows that Earth would possibly vanish itself due to the tidal forces. This would happen while the Sun continues to get bigger. However, the Sun will lose mass.

Anyway, Earth's ocean and air would have long since worn out. This is even though the Sun is still in its main sequence stage. After the Sun reaches a point where it can no longer get bigger, it will literally explode. But not like a supernova. Rather it will expand rapidly and lose its layers, forming a planetary nebula. Eventually the Sun will shrink into a white dwarf. Then, over several hundred billion or even a trillion years, the Sun would fade into a black dwarf.


</doc>
<doc id="44418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44418" title="Sign of the cross">
Sign of the cross

The sign of the cross is a physical gesture made by Catholics. It is usually done at the beginning and ending of prayers. The right hand goes from the forehead, to the chest, to the left shoulder, and to the right shoulder. This is sometimes done while saying "Father, Son, Holy Spirit."


</doc>
<doc id="44426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44426" title="Seljuk dynasty">
Seljuk dynasty

The Seljuks (also Seldjuk, Seldjuq, Seljuq, sometimes also Seljuq Turks) were a Muslim dynasty. They ruled parts of Central Asia and the Middle East from the 11th to 14th centuries. Their empire was known as Great Seljuk Empire that stretched from Anatolia to Pakistan. The Seljuks also fought the Christians in the First Crusade. 

The Seljuks were one of the cultural ancestors of the Western Turks, the present-day inhabitants of Azerbaijan, Turkey, and Turkmenistan. Originally, the House of Seljuq was a branch of the "Kinik" Oghuz Turks who in the 9th century lived north of the Caspian and Aral Seas in their Yabghu Khaganate of the Oghuz confederacy.


Kerman was a nation in southern Persia. It fell in 1187, probably conquered by Toğrül III of Great Seljuk.


Sultans/Emirs of Damascus:
Atabegs of Aleppo:



</doc>
<doc id="44427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44427" title="Jell-O">
Jell-O

Jell-O is a brand name belonging to the United States. It is known for a number of gelatin desserts, such as fruit gels, puddings, and unbaked cream pies. including fruit gels, puddings and no-bake cream pies.

Jell-O is sold as all prepared (ready to eat) or in powder form, and it is has many different colors and flavors. The powder has powdered gelatin, sugar, and artificial sweeteners. It is melted into hot water, and then chilled and eaten. Sometimes other ingredients are added to make them taste better. Jell-O must be put in a refrigerator until it is served, and usually eaten with a spoon.

There are also pudding and pie under the Jell-O brand. To make pudding, they are cooked on the stove with milk, then eaten.

Though the word "Jell-O" is a name brand, it is commonly used in the United States as a generic name for all gelatin products.



</doc>
<doc id="44434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44434" title="Pteranodon">
Pteranodon

Pteranodon was a large pterosaur from the Upper Cretaceous period.

With its wings open it was up to 9 meters across. "Pteranodon" might have live much like and albatross, spending a lot of time over the ocean, looking for fish. It had no teeth in its long mouth, and it had a small pouch like a pelican at the back of its jaw. "Pteranodon" had a big crest at the back of its head. "Pteranodon longiceps" had a straight crest that went backwards, and "Pteranodon sternbergi" had a bigger, flatter crest that went upward.

Pteranodons like modern birds did not have teeth in their beaks. This was unlike Pterodactylus which had teeth in their beaks. 

Fossil "Pteranodon" have been found in Kansas, Alabama, Nebraska, Wyoming, and South Dakota.


</doc>
<doc id="44435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44435" title="Richard II of England">
Richard II of England

Richard II (6 January 1367–14 February 1400) was the son of Edward, the Black Prince, Prince of Wales, and Joan of Kent"The Fair Maid of Kent". He was born in Bordeaux and became his father's successor when his elder brother died in infancy. His father died before him, so he became king in 1377. Towards the end of his reign, Richard became a tyrant. 

Richard abdicated in 1399. He died the next year.


</doc>
<doc id="44436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44436" title="Drinker">
Drinker

Drinker was a small dinosaur from North America. It was a very small herbivore that grew up to 1 meter long. It was named after Edward Drinker Cope a paleontologist, a dinosaur scientist who found many dinosaur fossils such as "Triceratops", "Anatotitan" and "Tyrannosaurus rex".


</doc>
<doc id="44437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44437" title="Franz Ferdinand (band)">
Franz Ferdinand (band)

Franz Ferdinand is an indie rock band from Glasgow, Scotland. The group is named after Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria. Franz Ferdinand has released three albums, "Franz Ferdinand", "You Could Have It So Much Better With Franz Ferdinand", and their most recent release, "Tonight: Franz Ferdinand".
The band members are Alex Kapranos, Robert Hardy, Nicholas McCarthy, Paul Thomson.


</doc>
<doc id="44449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44449" title="Kress Stores">
Kress Stores

S. H. Kress & Co. was a group of "five and dime" department stores in the United States between 1896 to 1981. The business was started in Nanticoke, Pennsylvania, by Samuel H. Kress in 1896. Kress Stores were common in many cities and towns of the United States. In 1964, S. H. Kress & Co. was bought by Genesco, Inc. Genesco began closing down the stores in 1980.

The Kress chain was known for the architecture of the stores. A number of former Kress stores, now used for other things, are said to be landmarks. Some of the most well-known Kress locations included New York City's Fifth Avenue, Canal Street, New Orleans, and one at Hollywood's Hollywood Boulevard. The one at Hollywood Boulevard is now preserved at a theme park in Florida.



</doc>
<doc id="44450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44450" title="Category:Portuguese-speaking countries">
Category:Portuguese-speaking countries

All the countries in this category have Portuguese as an official language


</doc>
<doc id="44451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44451" title="Henry V of England">
Henry V of England

Henry V of England (16 September 1387-31 August 31 1422) was the King of England from 1413 to 1422. He was born at Monmouth, Wales. It is not known whether he was born on 9 August 1386 or 16 September 1387.

Henry V was the son of Henry Bolingbroke, later Henry IV, and Mary de Bohun, who died before Bolingbroke became king.

During his reign, Henry increased his power as King of England and also took the title of King of France, over which English kings had been fighting for decades. He defeated the French at the famous Battle of Agincourt in 1415.


</doc>
<doc id="44457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44457" title="Athlete's foot">
Athlete's foot

Athlete's Foot is a condition where the foot is dry and cracked, which can be mildly painful. It was named athlete's foot because it was common in people who play sports or do exercise. The infection can be spread to other areas of the body, such as the armpits, knees and elbows.

Athlete's foot causes scaling, flaking, itching, blisters and cracked skin. It can be cured by using antibiotics.


</doc>
<doc id="44460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44460" title="Back">
Back

The word back has several meanings.


</doc>
<doc id="44470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44470" title="Reflection">
Reflection

Reflection is the change in direction of a wave at a boundary between two different media, so that the wave moves back into the same medium form which it came from.
The most common examples include the reflection of light, sound and water waves.
Specular reflection is a mirror-like reflection of light from a surface, in which light from a single incoming direction is reflected into a single outgoing direction. In the diagram to the right, a light ray is coming from the point P, and meets at the mirror at point O. The ray reflects at the point O outwards in the same medium towards point Q. If a line is put through point O that is at 90˚ to the mirror, the angles made by the light ray (shown in the diagram as formula_1 and formula_2) must be equal. Both angles have to be equal whenever reflection occurs. This is known as the "law of reflection".

The word "reflection" can also be used to mean an allegory, or a thing or person that resembles another.


</doc>
<doc id="44473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44473" title="Category:Cities in Kansas">
Category:Cities in Kansas


</doc>
<doc id="44491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44491" title="Caspian Sea">
Caspian Sea

The Caspian Sea is the largest lake on Earth by both area and volume, with a surface area of 371,000 square kilometres (143,244 mi²) and a volume of 78,200 cubic kilometres (18,761 mi³). It is a landlocked (endorheic) body of water and lies between Russia and Iran. It has a maximum depth of about 1025 meters (3,363 ft). It is called a sea because when the Romans first arrived there, they tasted the water and found it to be salty. It has a salinity of approximately 1.2%, about a third the salinity of sea water.



</doc>
<doc id="44494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44494" title="Complementary angles">
Complementary angles

Complementary angles are two angles that when their measurements are added together is equal to 90 degrees.


</doc>
<doc id="44495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44495" title="Civil rights">
Civil rights

Civil rights are rights that all people in a country have. The civil rights of a country apply to all the citizens within itsborders. These rights are given by the laws of the country. 

Civil rights include freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, and freedom of assembly. Civil rights also include the right to own property and the right to get fair and equal treatment from the government, from other citizens, and from private groups. 

In democratic countries, a person's civil rights are protected by law and custom. The constitutions of many democracies have a "Bill of Rights" that describes the people's liberties and rights. A well-known example is the United States Bill of Rights. 

A court of law decides if a person's civil rights have been violated. The courts also decide the limits of civil rights, so that people do not use their freedoms to take away the rights of other people.






</doc>
<doc id="44500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44500" title="Ununpentium">
Ununpentium

Ununpentium is a chemical element. It is also named eka-bismuth. It has the symbol Uup. It has the atomic number 115. It is a superheavy element. 

Ununpentium does not exist in nature. It is a synthetic element, made from a fusion reaction between americium and calcium.

Ununpentium is in the center of the theoretical island of stability. No stable isotopes of ununpentium have yet been found. Models predict that the stable isotope of ununpentium should have 184 neutrons. The stable isotope with 184 neutrons is Uup. The isotope that has been made has only 173 neutrons (Uup).

On February 2 2004 a report that ununpentium and ununtrium were made was written in a journal named Physical Review C. The report was written by a team of Russian scientists at Dubna University's Joint Institute for Nuclear Research and American scientists at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.

These people reported that they bombarded a different chemical element named americium with the element calcium to make four atoms of ununpentium.

Scientists of Japan also report that they have made Ununpentium. 

In May 2006 at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research this element was made by another method and what the final products from radioactive decay were was found by chemical analysis.

Ununpentium is a temporary IUPAC systematic element name.

Not enough ununpentium has been made to measure its physical or chemical properties. It is thought that it would be a hard metal. It may have a low melting point of about 250 °C. It may be slightly colored. 

Ununpentium is in the same group as bismuth but its chemical properties will be different. The chemistry of ununpentium will be very influenced by special relativity. It will make its properties different to the other elements in the periodic table that have a smaller atomic number. One important difference from bismuth is the presence of a stable oxidation state of +I (Uup). The (Uup) ion is thought to have chemical properties like Tl.

Ununpentium is inside the island of stability. This is likely to be why it is found in popular culture. It is more likely to be talked about in UFO conspiracy theories.

The most popular story about ununpentium is from Bob Lazar . It is not pseudoscience because it is a refutable theory, however Lazar's claims are not backed by any direct experimental evidence at this time. 



</doc>
<doc id="44501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44501" title="Ununseptium">
Ununseptium

Ununseptium is the temporary name of a chemical element. It has not been discovered. It has the temporary symbol Uus. The element would have the atomic number 117. Ununseptium can also be named eka-astatine.

Ununseptium was discovered in 2009-10. 6 atoms were detected.



</doc>
<doc id="44503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44503" title="The World Factbook">
The World Factbook

The World Factbook, also known as the CIA World Factbook, is a book that contains the Central Intelligence Agency's information about the world's countries. A new book is published every year. The "Factbook" provides a two- to three-page summary of the demographics, geography, communications, government, economy, and military of 272 countries, dependencies, and other areas in the world.

"The World Factbook" is designed to be used by people that work for the United States government, but it is also used by students, on websites, and in other publications that are not made by governments. Because the U.S. Government made it, it is in the public domain. 



</doc>
<doc id="44511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44511" title="MediaWiki:Diff-multi">
MediaWiki:Diff-multi


</doc>
<doc id="44519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44519" title="Template:StatusFossil">
Template:StatusFossil

fossil

</doc>
<doc id="44523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44523" title="Category:Crocodilia">
Category:Crocodilia


</doc>
<doc id="44526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44526" title="Taco">
Taco

A taco is a traditional Mexican food that consists of a tortilla that is rolled or folded around a filling. The tortilla is usually made of corn, and can be hard or soft.

Most tacos are made with meat, usually beef, but chicken, pork or fish can also be used. Other things that can be placed in a taco, such as cheese, lettuce, guacamole, or pico de gallo. Sometimes, a taco is made with salsa or spicy Tapitio sauce.

Tacos are popular in the United States. Many fast food chains in the United States, such as Taco Bell, Del Taco, and Jack in the Box, sell tacos.


</doc>
<doc id="44529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44529" title="Gerard Way">
Gerard Way

Gerard Arthur Way is an American singer. He was born April 9, 1977 in Newark, New Jersey. Way is the lead singer and co-founder of the rock band My Chemical Romance. His brother Mikey is the bass player for the band. Way used to have long black hair but cut it off and dyed it blonde to better understand the idea behind their new album, "The Black Parade". Now his hair is black again and a bit longer, because he said it was annoying to try and keep it the same, before my chemical romance Gerard had red hair, now with the new album (danger days) he has dyed it red again, he said that he dyed it so he always has some colour no matter what he is wearing. Despite this, Gerard has revived his habit of backtracking on what he says and has redyed his hair black which was revealed to fans on October 28th 2011. Gerard married Lyn Z of Mindless Self Indulgence on September 3rd 2007. He and LynZ announced that they were having a baby in November of 2008. Their daughter, Bandit Lee Way, was born on May 27, 2009. She arrived at 2:57 PM and weighed 6 pounds and 5.6 ounces. Gerard has said that both Bandit and LynZ are "happy and healthy". Way is also the writer of the comic book series "The Umbrella Academy".

Way attended the School of Visual Arts in New York City and graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in 1999. As a child, Way grew up in a dangerous neighborhood where crimes happened often. He said that he was not allowed to play outside much when he was younger. In place of that, he had to stay indoors. While not being able to play in the park, he created his own imaginary world in his head. This led to his love for artwork. Gerard hoped to one day be a comic book artist. Before the attack on 9/11, Way was working on his cartoon "The Breakfast Monkey". He wanted it to be shown on Cartoon Network. The cartoon was rejected because it was very similar to the series "Aqua Teen Hunger Force". 


</doc>
<doc id="44535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44535" title="Emerson, Lake &amp; Palmer">
Emerson, Lake &amp; Palmer

Emerson, Lake & Palmer were a English progressive rock group. In the 1970s, the band was extremely popular, selling over 30 million albums and headlining huge concerts.



</doc>
<doc id="44537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44537" title="Newark, New Jersey">
Newark, New Jersey

Newark is the largest city in in U.S. State of New Jersey, 65th largest city in the United States, and serves as the seat of Essex County.

Newark was originally formed as a township on October 31, 1693. During its time as a township, portions were taken to form Springfield Township, New Jersey, Caldwell Township, New Jersey, Orange Township, New Jersey, Bloomfield Township, New Jersey, (March 23, 1812) and Clinton Township, New Jersey. Newark was reincorporated as a city on April 11, 1836. The previously independent Vailsburg borough was annexed by Newark on January 1, 1905. Newark is divided into five wards; North Ward, South Ward, West Ward, East Ward, and Central Ward.


</doc>
<doc id="44538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44538" title="Aeolic Greek">
Aeolic Greek

Aeolic Greek was a dialect of the Greek language that was spoken on the island of Lesbos and nearby parts of Asia Minor.


</doc>
<doc id="44542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44542" title="Myst">
Myst

Myst is a computer game designed by the brothers Robyn and Rand Miller in a company called Cyan. The Millers started working on Myst in 1991 and released it for the Macintosh computer on September 24, 1993. "Myst" was later released on many different computers and video game consoles.

In "Myst", the player starts by using a special book to travel to Myst Island. There, the player uses other special books to travel to different worlds called "Ages". Solving puzzles on different Ages helps the player learn more about Myst Island and the people who live there. The player can make choices that change the ending of the game.

When "Myst" was released, it became very popular. Critics loved "Myst" because it felt like a real world. "Myst" was the best-selling computer game until The Sims was released in 2002. "Myst" helped the CD-ROM get more popular when the CD-ROM was new. Because "Myst" was so popular, four sequels were made, and three "Myst" novels were written.


</doc>
<doc id="44545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44545" title="Father Christmas">
Father Christmas

Father Christmas is the British name for Santa Claus. The name was used in songs such as "I Believe in Father Christmas" by Emerson, Lake & Palmer.


</doc>
<doc id="44546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44546" title="Wham!">
Wham!

Wham! was an English pop band. It was created in 1981 by George Michael and Andrew Ridgeley. For a short time, they were known in the United States as Wham! UK because another band already had that name. They are best known for the song "Last Christmas".


</doc>
<doc id="44547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44547" title="George Michael">
George Michael

George Michael (born Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou, 25 June 1963) is a two-time Grammy Award winning English singer-songwriter.

George Michael who rose to fame in the 1980s, when he formed the pop duo Wham! with his school friend Andrew Ridgeley. The duo released a string oh hit singles in 1982 like "Young Guns (Go For It)" and "Wham Rap! (Enjoy What You Do)" both written by Michael. In 1983, Wham’s debut album, "Fantastic" was released. It reached #1 in the UK charts and had the hit single Club Tropicana with a music video, shot in Ibiza. following a year, Wham changed it imaged with the release of their second album Make it Big, which was a critical and commercial success, hitting #1 in both the UK and the USA and spawning four singles, all topping the charts on both sides of the Atlantic. One of the most popular songs in the album, Careless Whisper Micheal's first solo single, released in 1984 while he was still performing with Wham!. In 1986, Wham! disbanded after a release of a third studio album, single and concert at Wembley Stadium.

Following his split with Wham!, George Michael began a successful solo career, releasing four studio albums, "Faith" (1987), "Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1" (1991), "Older" (1996), and "Patience" (2004). Michael has sold over 100 million records worldwide as of 2010, encompassing 11 British #1 singles, 9 British #1 albums, 10 US #1 singles, and 2 US #1 album. His 1987 debut solo album, "Faith" has sold over 20 million copies worldwide alone and its considered by some music critics to be one of the greatest albums in pop music history. In 2004, Radio Academy has named Michael the most played artist on British radio between the period of 1984-2004.

In 2006, George Michael announced his first tour in 15 years. 25 Live tour was a massive, worldwide undertaking by Michael that spanned forth individual tours over the course of five years (2006, 2007,2008,2009 and 2010).

Michael was initially private about being homosexual. During his "Wham!" career, was been in relationships with well-known women such as actress Brooke Shields, and model Pat Fernandes. Between 1986-1988, he was romantically involved with Kathy Yueng, an American makeup artist who was featured in "I Want Your Sex" Music Video. Nonetheless, his sexual orientation was well known among London music business people.

These persisted into his solo career, but Michael had already established a relationship with Anselmo Feleppa, whom he had met at the 1991 concert ""Rock in Rio"". Feleppa died of an AIDS-related brain hemorrhage in 1993. Michael's single "Jesus to a Child" is a tribute to Feleppa (he consistently dedicates it to him before performing it live), as is his 1996 album "Older". Since 1996, Michael had been in a long-term relationship with businessman Kenny Goss. They have homes in London and Dallas. 







Disc 1
Disc 2
Disc 3



</doc>
<doc id="44550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44550" title="Chink">
Chink

Chink may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="44553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44553" title="Handle">
Handle

Handle could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="44554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44554" title="Category:Words">
Category:Words


</doc>
<doc id="44556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44556" title="Spermicide">
Spermicide

Spermicide is a substance that kills sperm before it can enter the vagina. When a spermicide is used as the only form of contraception, the pregnancy rate is much higher than it is when other contraceptives are used. Spermicides are normally used with barrier contraception, such as condoms, cervical caps, diaphragms, and contraceptive sponges.


</doc>
<doc id="44557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44557" title="Big Brother (TV series)">
Big Brother (TV series)

Big Brother is a TV game which appears on channel 4 in the UK. People known as housemates, enter a house and they do not bring any of their belongings except clothes. They are bored and the people behind the cameras who call themselves big brother announce things through the loudspeaker. Housemates would get a task to do so that they can get food. A celebrity version of big brother also appears on channel 4 in January. 

The series was developed by Endemol, and the first season was shown in the Netherlands. The show's format has since been copied in over forty countries, including Brazil, Bulgaria, Germany, Italy, Spain, UK (see Big Brother UK 2008) and US. It also used to be in Australia, but was axed in 2008.

In some countries, there are also special editions of the show, for example "Big Brother VIP" or "". 
Usually, some of the rules in these special editions are a little bit different from the original ones. 

"Big Brother VIP" is the name of the special edition of the show, in which all the housemates are famous people. It has been released in many of the countries airing "Big Brother", for example Bulgaria - "VIP Brother"; Mexico - "Big Brother VIP"; UK - "Celebrity Big Brother". 
The duration of the show is often only a month and in some countries the nominations and evictions are twice a week. 
Sometimes the big prize is given for charity or there is no big prize at all. 


</doc>
<doc id="44558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44558" title="Euphonium">
Euphonium

The euphonium is a brass instrument. It is very similar to the baritone, but it is different because the tubes are wider and it is bigger. The euphonium makes low sounds, similar to the trombone. The euphonium has 3 or 4 valves and 1-3 spit valves. "Spit" valves do not really mean there is spit in the instrument, it means that there is condensation in the instrument.

The euphonium is seen in different sorts of bands in Europe and America. The musicians make the sound by blowing into the instrument and "buzzing" with their lips. 

The word euphonium means: "producing nice sounds" 

Euphoniums are silver and brass in colour. 


</doc>
<doc id="44563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44563" title="Newark">
Newark

Newark can refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="44566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44566" title="Category:Sensory system">
Category:Sensory system


</doc>
<doc id="44569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44569" title="Category:1367 births">
Category:1367 births


</doc>
<doc id="44572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44572" title="Category:People by nationality">
Category:People by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="44573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44573" title="Category:Oceanic people">
Category:Oceanic people


</doc>
<doc id="44574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44574" title="Category:Oceania">
Category:Oceania


</doc>
<doc id="44575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44575" title="Category:South American people">
Category:South American people


</doc>
<doc id="44576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44576" title="Category:People by continent">
Category:People by continent


</doc>
<doc id="44577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44577" title="Category:European people">
Category:European people


</doc>
<doc id="44578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44578" title="Category:North American people">
Category:North American people


</doc>
<doc id="44580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44580" title="Category:African people">
Category:African people


</doc>
<doc id="44581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44581" title="Category:Asian people">
Category:Asian people


</doc>
<doc id="44584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44584" title="Prophylaxis">
Prophylaxis

Prophylaxis is a Greek word and concept. It means any "action taken to guard or prevent beforehand". The corresponding adjective is prophylactic. 

The concept of prophylaxis has two parts. First is forethought. A person has to realise the need first of all. Second is taking appropriate action.

Any failure of prophylaxis is a failure at either stage 1 or stage 2. Successful prophylaxis means one has anticipated and avoided some undesirable outcome. 

Prophylaxis is the central idea in preventative medicine. People usually think medical treatment helps sick people to get healthy. Prophylactic treatment is helpful in a different way. Primary prophylaxis tries to stop healthy people from getting sick. Secondary prophylaxis tries to stop people who are sick from getting worse. 

Prophylaxis may also be used as a synonym for birth control. Condoms are prophylactic, because when you use them, a female will not get pregnant, and it reduces the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.

Prophylaxis is also a term in chess. It was introduced by the grandmaster Aaron Nimzovich in his book "My system". The term refers to actions taken by a player to thwart the opponent's plans, and moves of these type are often called "prophylactic moves".

One simple example of a prophylactic move is when a player moves a rook's pawn forward one square to prevent a back rank mate.


</doc>
<doc id="44588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44588" title="Abu Bakr">
Abu Bakr

Abū Bakr (c. 573–August 23 634/13 AH) was the first Muslim ruler after the Prophet Muhammad (632–634). While Sunnis regard him as his rightful successor ("caliph"), chosen by the people, the Shiites insist that he violated Muhammad's direct orders and made a Coup d'état. International lists have him as the first Muslim Caliph.



</doc>
<doc id="44590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44590" title="Lemon">
Lemon

The lemon is a small tree ("Citrus limon") that is green even in the winter. It came from Asia, and is also the name of the tree's oval yellow fruit. The fruit is used for cooking and other things in the world – usually for its juice.

People do not know for sure where lemons have come from. However, most people think that lemons first grew in India, northern Burma, and China. The lemon is the common name for "Citrus Lemon." A lemon is a yellow citrus fruit. It is related to the orange. Lemon juice is about 5% citric acid, and has a pH of 2 to 3. Lemon plants vary in size yet stay generally small. The tallest height they can get is about 6 meters tall.

Lemons taste sour. The juice, zest, and pulp are often used in cooking, often on fish and other meat for better taste. Lemon is also used to flavour drinks, such as lemonade or soft drinks. 


</doc>
<doc id="44593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44593" title="Elevator">
Elevator

An elevator or lift is a vertical transport vehicle that efficiently moves people or goods between floors of a building. They are generally powered by electric motors that either drive traction cables and counterweight systems, or pump hydraulic fluid to raise a cylindrical piston.
Languages other than English may have loanwords based on either elevator (e.g., Japanese) or lift (e.g., Cantonese).
Because of wheelchair access laws, elevators are often a legal requirement in new multi-story buildings, especially where wheelchair ramps would be impractical.

Some argue that lifts began as simple rope or chain hoists. A lift is essentially a platform that is either pulled or pushed up by a mechanical means. A modern day lift consists of a cab (also called a "cage" or "car") mounted on a platform within an enclosed space called a shaft or sometimes a "hoistway". In the past, lift drive mechanisms were powered by steam and water hydraulic pistons. In a "traction" lift, cars are pulled up by means of rolling steel ropes over a deeply grooved pulley, commonly called a sheave in the industry. The weight of the car is balanced with a counterweight. Sometimes two lifts always move synchronously in opposite directions, and they are each other's counterweight

The friction between the ropes and the pulley furnishes the traction which gives this type of lift its name. 

Hydraulic lifts use the principles of hydraulics (in the sense of hydraulic power) to pressurize an above ground or in-ground piston to raise and lower the car. Roped hydraulics use a combination of both ropes and hydraulic power to raise and lower cars. Recent innovations include permanent earth magnet motors, machine room-less rail mounted gearless machines, and microprocessor controls. 

The technology used in new installations depends on a variety of factors. Hydraulic lifts are cheaper, but installing cylinders greater than a certain length becomes impractical for very high lift hoistways. For buildings of much over seven stories, traction lifts must be employed instead. Hydraulic lifts are usually slower than traction lifts.

Lifts are a candidate for mass customization.
There are economies to be made from mass production of the components, but each building comes with its own requirements like different number of floors, dimensions of the well and usage patterns.

Elevator doors protect riders from falling into the shaft. The most common configuration is to have two panels that meet in the middle, and slide open laterally. In a cascading configuration (potentially allowing wider entryways within limited space), the doors run on independent tracks so that while open, they are tucked behind one another, and while closed, they form cascading layers on one side. This can configured so that two sets of such cascading doors operate like the center opening doors described above, allowing for a very wide elevator cab. In less expensive installations the elevator can also use one large "slab" door: a single panel door the width of the doorway that opens to the left or right laterally.

General

All elevators, whether traction or hydraulic, require a machine room to store large electric motors (or hydraulic pumps) and a controller cabinet. This room is located above the hoistway (or below, for hydraulic elevators) and may contain machinery for a single or a group of elevators. Modern day traction motors boasting gearless and permanent magnet drive can be more compact and efficient; electronic microprocessors have replaced the mechanical relays. As a result, traction elevators can be built without a dedicated room above the shaft, saving valuable space in building planning.

The new lift design presents a departure from the traditional, looped over-the-top traction rope routing of traction elevators. The ends of the cables are fixed to the supporting structure, and the length of the cable are connected to the car and counterweight by means of a force-multiplying, energy saving compound pulley system. Machine room-less elevators have become a welcome alternative to the older hydraulic elevator for low to medium rise buildings.

Kone, a Finnish elevator company, first developed the machine room-less elevator in 1996.

Benefits from a Green Perspective

---this takes away the environmental concern that was created by the hydraulic cylinder being stored underground

Other Benefits


Facts
---national and local building codes did not address elevators without machine rooms

The first reference to an elevator is in the works of the Roman architect Vitruvius, who reported that Archimedes built his first elevator, probably in 236 B.C. In some literary sources of later historical periods, elevators were mentioned as cabs on a hemp rope and powered by hand or by animals. It is supposed that elevators of this type were installed in the Sinai monastery of Egypt. In the 17th century the prototypes of elevators were located in the palace buildings of England and France.

In 1852, Elisha Otis introduced the safety elevator, which prevented the fall of the cab if the cable broke. The design of the Otis safety elevator is somewhat similar to one type still used today. A governor device engages knurled roller(s), locking the elevator to its guides should the elevator descend at excessive speed. He demonstrated it at the New York exposition in the Crystal Palace in 1854.

In 1874, J.W. Meaker patented a method which permitted elevator doors to open and close safely.

The first electric elevator was constructed by the German engineer Werner von Siemens in 1880.

In 1882, when hydraulic power was a well established technology, a company later named the London Hydraulic Power Company was formed. It constructed a network of high pressure mains on both sides of the Thames which, ultimately, extended to 184 miles and powered some 8,000 machines, predominantly lifts (elevators) and cranes.

In 1929, Clarence Conrad Crispen, with Inclinator Company of America, created the first residential elevator. Crispen also invented the first inclined stairlift.

Pneumatic or "Vacuum" elevators operate without cables and can be installed more easily and quickly than their alternatives since their housing comprises prefabricated sections which are considerably narrower than conventional lift shafts. These sections are often transparent and afford the passenger a near 360° view.

Statistically speaking, elevators are extremely safe. Their safety record is unsurpassed by any other vehicle system. In 1998, it was estimated that approximately eight 100-millionths of one percent (1 in 12 million) of elevator rides resulted in an anomaly, and the vast majority of these were minor things such as the doors failing to open. For all practical purposes, there are no cases of elevators simply free-falling and killing the passengers inside; of the 20 to 30 elevator-related deaths each year, most of them are maintenance-related - for example, technicians leaning too far into the shaft or getting caught between moving parts, and most of the rest are attributed to easily avoidable accidents, such as people stepping blindly through doors that open into empty shafts or being strangled by scarves caught in the doors. In fact, prior to the September 11th terrorist attacks, the only known free-fall incident in a modern cable-borne elevator happened in 1945 when a B-25 bomber struck the Empire State Building in fog, severing the cables of an elevator cab, which fell from the 75th floor all the way to the bottom of the building, seriously injuring (though not killing) the sole occupant - the female elevator operator. While it is possible (though extraordinarily unlikely) for an elevator's cable to snap, all elevators in the modern era have been fitted with several safety devices which prevent the elevator from simply free-falling and crashing. An elevator cab is typically borne by six or eight hoist cables, each of which is capable on its own of supporting the full load of the elevator plus twenty-five per cent more weight. In addition, there is a device which detects whether the elevator is descending faster than its maximum designed speed; if this happens, the device causes bronze brake shoes to clamp down along the vertical rails in the shaft, stopping the elevator quickly, but not so abruptly as to cause injury. In addition, a hydraulic buffer is installed at the bottom of the shaft to cushion any impact somewhat.

Most recently, there was an incident in a modern cable-borne elevator that took place in a children's hospital in Seattle, Washington on October 9, 2007. The elevator involved was a ThyssenKrupp ISIS machine room-less elevator; The ISIS used Kevlar fiberglass ropes instead of conventional braided-steel ropes all other traction elevators use. One of the ISIS elevators broke free from its cables, slipping between the 6th and 4th floors; the Kevlar ropes were the cause of this incident. After the incident, ThyssenKrupp discontinued production of the ISIS and, the following year, replaced it with the Synergy machine room-less elevator, which uses conventional braided-steel ropes, making it much safer.

Past problems with early hydraulic elevators meant those built prior to a code change in 1972 were subject to possible catastrophic failure. The code had previously required only single-bottom hydraulic cylinders. In the event of a cylinder breach, an uncontrolled fall of the elevator might result. Because it is impossible to verify the system completely without a pressurized casing (as described below), it is necessary to remove the piston to inspect it. The cost of removing the piston is such that it makes no economic sense to re-install the old cylinder; therefore it is necessary to replace the cylinder and install a new piston. Another solution to protect against a cylinder blowout is to install a "life jacket." This is a device which, in the event of an excessive downward speed, clamps onto the cylinder and stops the car. This device is also known as a Rupture Valve in some parts of the world.

In addition to the safety concerns for older hydraulic elevators, there is risk of leaking hydraulic oil into the aquifer and causing potential environmental contamination. This has led to the introduction of PVC liners (casings) around hydraulic cylinders which can be monitored for integrity.

In the past decade, recent innovations in inverted hydraulic jacks have eliminated the costly process of drilling the ground to install a borehole jack. This also eliminates the threat of corrosion to the system and increases safety.

There are at least four means of moving an elevator:

Geared traction machines are driven by AC or DC electric motors. Geared machines use worm gears to control mechanical movement of elevator cars by "rolling" steel hoist ropes over a drive sheave which is attached to a gearbox driven by a high speed motor. These machines are generally the best option for basement or overhead traction use for speeds up to 500 ft/min (2.5 m/s).

Gearless traction machines are low speed (low RPM), high torque electric motors powered either by AC or DC. In this case, the drive sheave is directly attached to the end of the motor. Gearless traction elevators can reach speeds of up to 2,000 ft/min (10 m/s), or even higher. A brake is mounted between the motor and drive sheave (or gearbox) to hold the elevator stationary at a floor. This brake is usually an external drum type and is actuated by spring force and held open electrically; a power failure will cause the brake to engage and prevent the elevator from falling (see inherent safety and safety engineering).

In each case, cables are attached to a hitch plate on top of the cab or may be "underslung" below a cab, and then looped over the drive sheave to a counterweight attached to the opposite end of the cables which reduces the amount of power needed to move the cab. The counterweight is located in the hoist-way and rides a separate rail system; as the car goes up, the counterweight goes down, and vice versa. This action is powered by the traction machine which is directed by the controller, typically a relay logic or computerized device that directs starting, acceleration, deceleration and stopping of the elevator cab. The weight of the counterweight is typically equal to the weight of the elevator cab plus 40-50% of the capacity of the elevator. The grooves in the drive sheave are specially designed to prevent the cables from slipping. "Traction" is provided to the ropes by the grip of the grooves in the sheave, thereby the name. As the ropes age and the traction grooves wear, some traction is lost and the ropes must be replaced and the sheave repaired or replaced. 

Elevators with more than 100' (30 m) of travel have a system called compensation. This is a separate set of cables or a chain attached to the bottom of the counterweight and the bottom of the elevator cab. This makes it easier to control the elevator, as it compensates for the differing weight of cable between the hoist and the cab. If the elevator cab is at the top of the hoist-way, there is a short length of hoist cable above the car and a long length of compensating cable below the car and vice versa for the counterweight. If the compensation system uses cables, there will be an additional sheave in the pit below the elevator, to guide the cables. If the compensation system uses chains, the chain is guided by a bar mounted between the counterweight rails.


A climbing elevator is a self-ascending elevator with its own propulsion. The propulsion can be done by an electric or a combustion engine. Climbing elevators are used in guyed masts or towers, in order to make easy access to parts of these constructions, such as flight safety lamps for maintenance. An example would be the Moonlight Towers in Austin, Texas, where the elevator holds only one person and equipment for maintenance.

Many elevator installations now feature emergency power systems which allow elevator use in blackout situations and prevent people from becoming trapped in elevators.

When power is lost in a traction elevator system, all elevators will initially come to a halt. One by one, each car in the group will return to the lobby floor, open its doors and shut down. People in the remaining elevators may see an indicator light or hear a voice announcement informing them that the elevator will return to the lobby shortly. Once all cars have successfully returned, the system will then automatically select one or more cars to be used for normal operations and these cars will return to service. The car(s) selected to run under emergency power can be manually overridden by a key or strip switch in the lobby. In order to help prevent entrapment, when the system detects that it is running low on power, it will bring the running cars to the lobby or nearest floor, open the doors and shut down.

In hydraulic elevator systems, emergency power will lower the elevators to the lowest landing and open the doors to allow passengers to exit. The doors then close after an adjustable time period and the car remains unusable until reset, usually by cycling the elevator main power switch. Typically, due to the high current draw when starting the pump motor, hydraulic elevators are not run using standard emergency power systems. Buildings like hospitals and nursing homes usually size their emergency generators to accommodate this draw. However, the increasing use of current limiting motor starters, commonly known as "Soft-Start" contactors, avoid much of this problem and the current draw of the pump motor is less of a limiting concern.

Elevators may feature talking devices as an accessibility aid for the blind. In addition to floor arrival notifications, the computer announces the direction of travel, and notifies the passengers before the doors are to close.

In addition to the call buttons, elevators usually have floor indicators (often illuminated by LED) and direction lanterns. The former are almost universal in cab interiors with more than two stops and may be found outside the elevators as well on one or more of the floors. Floor indicators can consist of a dial with a rotating needle, but the most common types are those with successively illuminated floor indications or LCDs. Likewise, a change of floors or an arrival at a floor is indicated by a sound, depending on the elevator.

Direction lanterns are also found both inside and outside elevator cars, but they should always be visible from outside because their primary purpose is to help people decide whether or not to get on the elevator. If somebody waiting for the elevator wants to go up, but a car comes first that indicates that it is going down, then the person may decide not to get on the elevator. If the person waits, then one will still stop going up. Direction indicators are sometimes etched with arrows or shaped like arrows and/or use the convention that one that lights up red means "down" and green means "up". Since the color convention is often undermined or overrided by systems that do not invoke it, it is usually used only in conjunction with other differentiating factors. An example of a place whose elevators use only the color convention to differentiate between directions is the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, where a single circle can be made to light up green for "up" and red for "down." Sometimes directions must be inferred by the position of the indicators relative to one another.

In addition to lanterns, most elevators have a chime to indicate if the elevator is going up or down either before or after the doors open, usually in conjunction with the lanterns lighting up. Universally, one chime is for up, two is for down, and none indicates an elevator that is 'free'.

Observatory service elevators often convey other facts of interest, including elevator speed, stopwatch, and current position (altitude), as with the case for Taipei 101's service elevators.

The mechanical and electrical design of elevators is dictated according to various standards (aka elevator codes), which may be international, national, state, regional or city based. Whereas once many standards were prescriptive, specifying exact criteria which must be complied with, there has recently been a shift towards more performance-based standards where the onus falls on the designer to ensure that the elevator meets or exceeds the standard.

Some of the national elevator standards include:

Because an elevator is part of a building, it must also comply with standards relating to earthquake resilience, fire standards, electrical wiring rules and so forth.

The American National Elevator Standards Group (ANESG) sets an elevator weight standard to be 2200 lbs.

Additional requirements relating to access by disabled persons, may be mandated by laws or regulations such as the Americans with Disabilities Act.


</doc>
<doc id="44596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44596" title="Billy Bragg">
Billy Bragg

Stephen William Bragg (born December 20, 1957), known as Billy Bragg, is an English singer and guitarist. He is famous for his mix of folk, punk, and protest music. 


</doc>
<doc id="44598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44598" title="Brixton riots">
Brixton riots

There have been three riots in Brixton, London:


</doc>
<doc id="44607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44607" title="Budweiser (Anheuser-Busch)">
Budweiser (Anheuser-Busch)

Budweiser is a popular American beer made by the Anheuser-Busch company. It is made with hops, barley, and rice. It is known as the "King of Beers". It is brewed in St. Louis and other cities around the United States. There are several different types of Budweiser beer, such as Bud Light. 

The name is similar to a Czech beer of the same name, Budweiser Budvar.



</doc>
<doc id="44610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44610" title="Shi'a Islam">
Shi'a Islam

Shi'a Islam, also Shi'ism (Arabic:شيعة, Persian:شیعه), It is short for Shī'at 'Ali ("the party of 'Ali"). Shi'a Muslims believe in the teachings of the prophet Muhammad's family, whom they call the Ahl al-Bayt. The Shi'as think that the first three ruling Sunni caliphs had no importance to the development of the faith. The singular/adjective form is "Shī'ī " (شيعي.) and means a follower of the Household of Muhammad and of Ali ibn Abi Talib (Imam Ali). 

Shi'a Islam, like Sunni Islam, has at times been divided into many branches, however only three of these have a significant number of followers nowadays. The best known and the one with most adherents is Twelvers ("Ithnāˤashariyya"), the others are Ismaili and Zaidiyyah and Druzes call themselves Shi'as, but mainstream Shi'as do not agree on this.



</doc>
<doc id="44611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44611" title="Brixton riot (1981)">
Brixton riot (1981)

The Brixton riot of April 11, 1981 was the biggest of three riots in Brixton, London, and the biggest riot in London.

Brixton in south London was a very poor area with many problems — high unemployment, much crime, bad housing. Many Black people and people from the Caribbean lived there. Many people there did not like the police. 

The riot was unplanned. On the evening of the 10th, at around 5.15pm, a black boy with a knife wound was stopped by police. As he was brought to a police car by two police men along Railton Road a large crowd attacked the police and the fight only ended when more police men arrived; the youth was taken to hospital.

Through the night of the 10th and on Saturday 11th the police brought many police men into the area. Throughout the day crowds slowly got together. In early evening, as the police tried to make some arrests on Atlantic Road, the riots started: a few bricks were thrown and windows smashed. More police came and more things were thrown. The police retreated, leaving their cars to be burned. Other cars were burned and things were stolen from shops on Railton Road, Mayall Road, Leeson Road and Brixton Road before the police came back.

The police closed the Atlantic-Railton-Mayall area from public, although many other streets had groups of rioting people as well. The rioters started throwing with bricks, bottles, and Molotov cocktails. Cars and buildings were burned and fire engines attacked as they tried to stop the flames.

The riot was at its peak at around 8pm, with two public houses, schools and other buildings burning. Two hours later the police had the area under some control, although the fire brigade returned at the next morning only. By 1am the area was largely under control, with no large crowdss — except the police — on the streets. There were tries to start violence again on the 12th, but they were stopped by more than 1,000 police men on the streets.

The riot was followed by almost 300 police injuries and 65 bad civilian injuries; over 100 cars were burned, including 56 police cars; almost 150 buildings were damaged, with thirty burned. There were 82 arrests.

Between July 3 and 11 of that year, there were more riots in England. There were riots in Handsworth, Southall, Toxteth, and Moss Side. There were also smaller pockets of unrest in Leeds, Leicester, Southampton, Halifax, Bedford, Gloucester, Coventry, Bristol, and Edinburgh.

The riots inspired the Eddy Grant song, "Electric Avenue." 
The Clash also made a song about Brixton, "The Guns of Brixton." This song came out before the riots of 1981 (The album was sold first in 1979), but it shows the general atmosphere in the area.


</doc>
<doc id="44617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44617" title="Caudipteryx">
Caudipteryx

Caudipteryx was a small feathered dinosaur. It was related to Oviraptor but looked more like Archaeopteryx. It was a relative of Protarchaeopteryx. It was found in China It was an insectivore which means that it ate insects.


</doc>
<doc id="44618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44618" title="Protarchaeopteryx">
Protarchaeopteryx

Protarchaeopteryx was a small feathered dinosaur from China. It was a bird-like predator with teeth. It looked like Archaeopteryx. It is one of the Chinese feathered dinosaurs.


</doc>
<doc id="44619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44619" title="Pentaceratops">
Pentaceratops

Pentaceratops was a very large ceratopsian dinosaur. It was almost 11 meters in length and 4 meters tall. It was larger than Triceratops.


</doc>
<doc id="44629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44629" title="Greenwich Mean Time">
Greenwich Mean Time

Greenwich Mean Time is an internationally standard time format. It is the main time zone in several countries, including the United Kingdom and Portugal.

It is similar to UTC, however there are some small differences between the two.


</doc>
<doc id="44631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44631" title="Template:TLS-H">
Template:TLS-H

This is a list of spacecraft which were launched into space during the year .
This is a template for use in Timeline of spaceflight articles.

Usage: <nowiki>{</nowiki>{subst:TLS-H|year}}</noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="44636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44636" title="Template:TLS-C">
Template:TLS-C


</doc>
<doc id="44638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44638" title="Template:TLS-C1">
Template:TLS-C1


</doc>
<doc id="44639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44639" title="Reciprocal">
Reciprocal

In mathematics, reciprocals are two numbers which multiply together and make 1. They are also called multiplicative inverses of each other. For example:


1 divided by a number gives the reciprocal of that number.


</doc>
<doc id="44640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44640" title="Template:TLS-P">
Template:TLS-P


</doc>
<doc id="44641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44641" title="Template:TLS-F">
Template:TLS-F

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

<br>
<includeonly>

</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="44642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44642" title="Template:TLS-R">
Template:TLS-R


</doc>
<doc id="44643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44643" title="2006 in spaceflight">
2006 in spaceflight

This is a list of spacecraft which were launched into space during the year 2006.

<br>


</doc>
<doc id="44644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44644" title="Template:RD">
Template:RD


</doc>
<doc id="44674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44674" title="British Museum">
British Museum

The British Museum in London is one of the world's largest and most important museums of human history and culture. It has more than seven million objects from all continents. They illustrate and document the story of human culture from its beginning to the present. As with all other national museums and art galleries in Britain, the Museum charges no admission fee. 

The British Museum set up in 1753 and opened in 1759. It was the first museum in the world to be open to everyone. The museum gradually grew over the next two hundred years. It has nearly six million visitors a year and is the second most popular art museum in the world. 

Some of the museum's most popular and important exhibits include the Rosetta Stone and the Elgin Marbles.

The history of the British Museum began with the English physicist Hans Sloane, who died aged 93 in 1753. During his life, he had collected many important things from all around the world. When he died, he did not want his collection to be split up between his relatives. He sold his collection to the parliament of King George II. The parliament set up the British Museum to hold the collection. By the time he died, Sloane had collected over 80,000 objects from all over the world including Egypt, Greece, Rome and the Americas. The collection was mostly books and manuscripts. There were many important archaeological pieces included as well.
The government looked at many possible places to build the new museum, including Buckingham House, which later became Buckingham Palace. Eventually a building called Montagu House was chosen. The Museum opened on the 15th of January 1759, although all visitors had to be shown around by stewards. Over the years the museum began to concentrate more and more on historical objects and sculptures. For this reason they were given the Rosetta Stone by King George III in 1802. The Rosetta Stone had previously been important to French historians trying understand the Hieroglyph language written by the Ancient Egyptians. In 1816 the Museum acquired the Elgin Marbles from Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin. Elgin had taken them from the Parthenon in Athens, Greece several years earlier. Many people disagreed with the way Elgin took them from Greece. They compared his acts to looting and vandalism. People still argue about this issue today.
In 1822 King George III donated the entire Royal Library to the museum. This contained over 65,000 books and pamphlets. In 1823 the original building was demolished and work began on new buildings to hold the ever growing collection. Some of the space was freed up when the National Gallery opened in 1824, as many of the Museum's paintings and drawings were moved there.

The Museums collection continued to get bigger over the following years, and more and more buildings were added to hold the new objects. Important discoveries by people working for the British Museum included the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus by Charles Newton in 1857 and the Temple of Artemis in 1869. Many things found at these sites were taken to the Museum, where they have remained ever since. In 1852 the British Museum's famous round Reading Room was opened. It had enough space to display a million books at once.
The collection continued to get bigger and bigger. Eventually the Natural History Museum was set up in 1887 to hold the natural parts of the Museum's collection. It was around this time that electric lights were first put in the Museum. It was one of the first public places in England to do so.
In the early 1900s the Museum's board of directors bought all the houses surrounding it, knocked them all down and built over them. In 1939, just before the start of World War II, most of the Museum's exhibits were taken to other places because the directors were worried the Nazis might bomb the Museum during the Blitz. The exhibits were stored in old London Underground stations, as well as other places. The evacuation proved to be a good idea, as parts of the Museum were destroyed by bombs in 1940.

Much of the 1950s was spent fixing the parts of the Museum destroyed by the bombing, and bringing back the pieces that had been taken away. During all this time the collection continued to get bigger, although space was slowly running out for all the books being brought in. The British Library was set up in 1973 to deal with this problem. In 1972 the Museum was loaned the Tutankhamun collection from the Museum of Cairo. They held a big exhibition called 'The Treasures of Tutankhamun' and it attracted over 1.5 million people to come and see it. 
In 1998 the central courtyard, which had been unused before, was turned into the Great Court with the Reading Room at its centre. The Great Court has over 2 acres of space under its roof. This makes it the largest covered public space in Europe. It was opened by Queen Elizabeth II in January 2000.
Since then the Museum has collected more things to do with history, rather than more modern pieces. They now have a large collection of Roman British, Ancient Greek and Ancient Egyptian artefacts, as well as objects from many other cultures and times around the world.

Because of its extremely large size the Museum's collection is split into many parts, called "departments". The departments have changed many times over the years. They are sometimes merged together, split into smaller departments or re-named and changed altogether.

The British Museums department of Ancient Egypt and Sudan is one of the biggest collections of Ancient Egyptian art in the world. Only the Egyptian Museum in Cairo has a bigger collection. They cover Egyptian and Sudanese history from around 10,000 BC all the way to the 12th century AD, a period of around 12,000 years. 

Around 150 of the objects in the Egyptian department were part of the first collection which was given to the Museum by Hans Sloane in 1753. In 1801 the British defeated the French, led by Napoleon Bonaparte, at the battle of the Nile. After the battle, British forces took lots of Ancient Egyptian artifacts from the defeated French. They were given to the British Museum in 1803. These objects included the famous Rosetta Stone.

The department continued to get bigger, paying for archaeologists to go to Egypt and Sudan. They did this until 2001 when the Egyptian government made it much harder for Museums to take historical artefacts back to their own country. The collection now has over 110,000 exhibits.

The British Museum's department of Greece and Rome is one of the biggest collections of Ancient Greek and Roman objects in the world. The objects come from nearly 4000 years of European history, from 3200 BC all the way to the 4th century AD.

It contains parts of two of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World; the Mausoleum at Halikarnassos and the Temple of Artemis at Ephesos. It also had many pieces taken from the Parthenon in Athens, Greece. Like the rest of the Museum the department gets most of its collection from excavations or the acquiring of private collections. Some of the earliest objects in the collection were bought from the collection of Sir William Hamilton in 1772. In recent years the Museum's rules on how it can get objects have become much stricter. Other countries rules on allowing Museums to take objects away have also got stricter. This has meant the British Museum has gradually taken fewer items each year in recent times.

The British Museum Department of the Middle East has the largest collection of Mesopotamian art in the world, outside Iraq. It has some 300,000 objects, covering the Neolithic period until present. It has objects from all over the Middle East including Mesopotamia (Iraq), Anatolia (Turkey), Levant (Syria, Lebanon and Jordan) and some pieces from central Asia. The Assyrian and Sumerian collections are also some of the biggest in the world.

Key objects in the collection include:




</doc>
<doc id="44677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44677" title="Dexter (TV series)">
Dexter (TV series)

Dexter is a television series that is being shown on Showtime television network. It's based on the book "Darkly Dreaming Dexter" written by Jeff Lindsay. The show tells a story about a serial killer, Dexter Morgan, who works as a forensics analyst for the police. The main actor of the show is Michael C. Hall.



</doc>
<doc id="44678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44678" title="Python (programming language)">
Python (programming language)

Python is an open source programming language that was made to look good and be easy to read. It was created by a programmer named Guido van Rossum in the year 1991. The language is named after the TV show Monty Python and many examples include jokes from the show.

Python is an interpreted language. An interpreted language allows the programmer to give the source code to the computer and the computer runs the code right away. This means if the programmer needs to change the code they can see the result of any changes quickly. This makes Python a good programming language for beginners and for rapid development because unlike some compiled languages you do not have to go through the Compile-Build-Run-Debug cycle with Python.

Python is a high-level programming language. A high level language has advanced features which allow the programmer to write instructions without having to worry about how the computer is going to carry them out. This makes writing programs easier and faster. Python derives some of its syntax from C and can use modules written in C.

Python is used by hundreds of thousands of programmers and is used in lots of applications. Sometimes only Python code is used for a program but most of the time it is used to do simple tasks while another programming language is used to do the more complex tasks.

Its standard library is what functions come with the program when it is installed. The standard library has lots functions in it. On the Internet there are many other libraries available that make it possible for the Python language to do more things. These libraries make it a powerful language meaning that it can do lots of different things.

Here are some of the things Python is often used for:

This is a small example of a Python program. It prints Hello World! to the screen. 



</doc>
<doc id="44693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44693" title="Back to the Future">
Back to the Future

Back to the Future is a 1985 movie. It starred Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd and Crispin Glover. The movie was produced by Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale. The movie is part of a trilogy of 3 movies telling the entire story.

The topic of the movie is time travel. It takes place at Hill Valley, a fictional city in California, and shows the adventures of Marty McFly and his friend Doc Emmett Brown. Doc has created a modified version of a car, a DeLorean, which can travel through time. The real present in all 3 movies is October 1985.

In 1985, Doc Emmett Brown shows teenage Marty his new creation: a car which can travel through the time. The heart of the time machine is "the flux capacitor," invented by Dr. Brown. The time machine needs plutonium to provide the power for the flux capacitor. Marty uses the car to escape from Libyan terrorists and accidentally goes back to the year 1955. Marty seeks out and meets Dr. Brown in 1955. The time machine is out of Plutonium, and there is no Plutonium available for the time machine in 1955. By chance, Marty knows the time and place of a one-time natural event (Lightning Strike) that can provide the power to transport the time machine and Marty back to 1985. 

The situation in 1955 is complicated when Marty meets his own parents as teenagers. When he helps his father, he accidentally changes the events that lead to his parents becoming a couple. (Marty's teenage mother becomes interested in Marty instead of Marty's father, George). With the help of the Doc of 1955, Marty will try to undo the damage he has done, and make his mother fall in love with his father. If he can get his parents back together, he has very little time to get back to the time machine/car to use the lightning strike to take the time machine and him (Marty) back to the future. (1985)

At the end of the "Back to the Future I", 1985 Doc uses the time machine to go 30 years into the future.(2015)
At the beginning of Back to the Future II Doc comes back from the future to 1985 to take 17 year old Marty and his girlfriend Jennifer to 2015 to prevent a disaster with his son Marty Junior. The problem with Marty Jr. is solved, but 17 year old Marty creates another problem that changes events in 1955. They discover this when they go back to 1985. The change in 1955 has turned 1985 into a bad world. Doc and Marty go back to 1955 to undo the damage. At the end of the movie the Doc is struck by lighting in the DeLorean and is sent back to Jan the 1st 1885 at 8 am.

At the end of "Back to the Future II", a lightning bolt sends 1985 Doc and the time machine from 1955 back to 1885. Marty finds the time machine where 1985/1885 Doc hid it. He soon find's out that the Doc is shot by Buford 'Mad Dog' Tannen and goes back to 1885 to save Doc from dying.


</doc>
<doc id="44694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44694" title="Stargate">
Stargate

Stargate is a science fiction media franchise and may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="44695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44695" title="Arthur Schopenhauer">
Arthur Schopenhauer

Arthur Schopenhauer (February 22, 1788 – September 21, 1860) was a German philosopher. 

Schopenhauer believed that the primary characteristic, or essence of all things - including human beings - is not intelligence, rationality or spirit, but will. By 'will' he means a blind, amazingly powerful force that forces everything, from a rock to George Bush, into existence for no real reason, as it has no real reason itself for existing and because of this, there is immense amounts of suffering in the world. He also believed that a "better consciousness" could be attained by denying the fulfilment our desires, taking time to think about who we really are and what we should do to avoid suffering - but also, in doing something few philosophers of his day spoke of: in making and looking at works of art, especially music, which he considered one of the few justifications for human existence.

Schopenhauer was a huge influence on Richard Wagner, Friedrich Nietzsche, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Thomas Mann, Sigmund Freud, Leo Tolstoy, Carl Jung and many other important artists and thinkers of the 20th Century.







</doc>
<doc id="44696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44696" title="Template:Fact">
Template:Fact

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="44697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44697" title="2005 Cronulla riots">
2005 Cronulla riots

The 2005 Cronulla riots were a series of violent events between Lebanese and white Australian mobs. Riots started in and around Cronulla, a suburb on the beach in Sydney, Australia's biggest city. The violence was soon also in other suburbs around Sydney. The riots happened on 11 December, 12 December and 14 December. Police think many people were there.

Several people were sent to Santa for being involved in the riot.


</doc>
<doc id="44699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44699" title="1992 Los Angeles riots">
1992 Los Angeles riots

The 1992 Los Angeles riots, also called Rodney King uprising or Rodney King riots, started on April 29, 1992 when a jury set four white police men free. The jury was mostly Caucasian. The police men had beaten up the black motorist Rodney King very badly and filmed this, after he fled from police. Thousands of people in Los Angeles, mostly African American and Hispanic, joined in the riots. In all, 55 people were killed in the riots.


</doc>
<doc id="44705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44705" title="Category:Cities in Alaska">
Category:Cities in Alaska


</doc>
<doc id="44706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44706" title="Category:Oceanic cities">
Category:Oceanic cities


</doc>
<doc id="44707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44707" title="Hypotenuse">
Hypotenuse

The hypotenuse is the side opposite the 90 degrees angle in a right triangle. It is always the longest side.

For example:

In this triangle, if angle C is 90 degrees, then the opposite side, "c", is the hypotenuse. The hypotenuse is important in trigonometry, where it is used to calculate many functions.

The length of the hypotenuse can be calculated if the other two sides are known, using Pythagoras' Theorem. In fact, the length of any side of a right triangle can be calculated if the other two sides are known, using this theorem.


</doc>
<doc id="44708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44708" title="Category:World record holders">
Category:World record holders


</doc>
<doc id="44711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44711" title="Niðavellir">
Niðavellir

In Norse Mythology, the Niðavellir are dark fields, mentioned in the Völuspa. They are inhabited by the dwarves.


</doc>
<doc id="44716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44716" title="Python">
Python

Python is the name given to a number of constricting snakes. Such snakes are not venomous. The family in question is that of the "Pythonideae". Some people think it is related to that of the Boa snakes. However, boas produce live young, while pythons lay eggs. Pythons can be found in Australia, Southeast Asia and Africa. Pythons can range from 3 feet long in species like ball pythons to 29 feet in species like reticulated pythons. Longer pythons have been seen, but the reports are not secured. Larger pythons can prey on animals as large as a house cat or a full-grown deer. In Africa, there are pythons that eat gazelles. To catch its prey, the python squeezes it to death, then swallows it whole. 
Despite their size, pythons are rarely dangerous to humans. 


</doc>
<doc id="44717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44717" title="Category:Snakes">
Category:Snakes

This category is for reptiles of the suborder "Serpentes", the snakes.


</doc>
<doc id="44723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44723" title="Consultation (Bahá'í practice)">
Consultation (Bahá'í practice)

Consultation is a special way of discussing problems and making decisions used by Bahá'ís. 

The word consult generally means to talk about something, consider all the facts, and make a decision. To Bahá'ís, consultation also means:

Consultation is used by Bahá'í elected leaders when they gather in councils to make sure no one person gets to decide everything. Married people consult with their husband or wife to solve difficulties in the marriage. Parents and children may consult, teachers and students may consult, and Bahá'ís all consult as a community when they get together every nineteen days.


</doc>
<doc id="44726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44726" title="List of riots">
List of riots

This is a list of important riots that happened:











</doc>
<doc id="44729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44729" title="Serbian language">
Serbian language

The Serbian language is spoken in Serbia. The Serbian language is spoken in America because there are Serbians in America.The language is European in origin. This language got a complete makeover in the mid-1800s by Serbian linguist Vuk Karadžić


</doc>
<doc id="44733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44733" title="Namaste">
Namaste

Namaste is a greeting used a lot in many East Asian countries. It is used when both Hello and Goodbye would be used in English, though it has a very different meaning.

Namaste is kind of like a praise to the person receiving the namaste

OR

Meaning: “I bow to the divine in you.” Namaste is a traditional Indian greeting of respect and thank you, with spiritual and symbol meaning.


</doc>
<doc id="44734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44734" title="Xylem vessel">
Xylem vessel

Xylem is the water transporter cells of plants. It carries water around a plant.

Xylem vessels are a long straight chain made of tough long dead cells known as vessel elements. The cells are arranged end to end and the cell walls which would normally surround the whole cell dissolve where ever they are touching another cell wall. This makes a tube (because there is no blocking cell wall); sometimes the cells are just filled with holes rather than have no blocking cell-wall. .they have lignified cell wall and a large central cavity.The vessel cells are also devoid of protoplasm.Vessel members are interconnected through perforations in their common walls.The presence of vessel is a characteristic feature of angiosperms
The secondary walls of vessels are filled with lignin, a kind of hard glue. 

Xylem vessels work because of the transpiration stream. It is caused by the evaporation of water from the cells in the leaf to the atmosphere. This transpiration causes millions of tiny rings of cartilage to form in the cell wall of the leaf. The resulting surface tension causes pressure in the xylem that pulls the water from the roots and soil. This is called capillary action.

The Xylem vessels were discovered by Rubert Higgins (1896-1999) while he was on vacation in the Bahamas. 


</doc>
<doc id="44741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44741" title="Confluence">
Confluence

In geography, confluence means the meeting of two or more waterways. It usually means the point where a smaller river joins a more major river. The German city name Koblenz indicates that the city lies at the point at the confluence of the Rhine and the Moselle.


</doc>
<doc id="44742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44742" title="Neural network">
Neural network

A Neural network is an artificial system (made of artificial neuron cells). It is modeled after the way the human brain works. Several computing cells work in parallel to produce a result. This is usually seen as one of the possible ways Artificial intelligence can work. Most neural networks can tolerate if one or more of the processing cells fail. 

What is important in the idea of neural networks is that they are able to learn by themselves, an ability which makes them remarkably distinctive in comparison to normal computers, which cannot do anything for which they are not programmed.


</doc>
<doc id="44743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44743" title="Werra">
Werra

The Werra is a river in the central part of Germany. The Werra has its source near "Fehrenbach" in Thuringia. After 293 km, the Werra joins the Fulda River in Hann. Münden, making the Weser. The Werra valley ("Werratal") makes a natural border between the Rhön hills and the Thuringian Forest. 


</doc>
<doc id="44744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44744" title="Blackout">
Blackout

In medicine, the word blackout is a form of amnesia. The amnesia may be complete or partial. Such an amnesia can be provoked by 

After the cause is gone, usually, full mental powers are restored. There may be a blank in memory though.


</doc>
<doc id="44748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44748" title="Muspelheim">
Muspelheim

Muspelheim (also called Muspel) is the realm of fire, in Norse mythology. The fire giants live there. Their king is Surtr.

According to the Ragnarok prophecies, the Sons of Muspel will break the Bifrost bridge, signaling that time is ending:


</doc>
<doc id="44749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44749" title="Jötnar">
Jötnar

A Jotun or Jötun in Norse mythology, is a giant. Groups of Jötun are called Jötnar. They are known for being very large and very strong. Very often they would fight against the gods, but they sometimes mixed. Sometimes gods and Jötnar would marry. Their stronghold is called Utgardr and it is in Jötunheimr, the name for their world. This is one of the nine Norse worlds. Jötunheim is separated from Midgard, or Earth, by high mountains, and big forests. Outside their home world, giants seem to prefer to live in caves. 


</doc>
<doc id="44757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44757" title="BBC Sports Personality of the Year">
BBC Sports Personality of the Year

The BBC Sports Personality of the Year is an award that is given to a sportsperson in December every year. Only British or foreign sportspeople based in the United Kingdom are allowed to win the award. It started in 1954.



</doc>
<doc id="44758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44758" title="Labyrinth">
Labyrinth

The Labyrinth is a palace built by Daedalus by order of King Minos of Crete to hold his son, the Minotaur, a bloodthirsty man with a bull head. The name became synonymous of a place where the exit is hard to find, either purposefully or not.


</doc>
<doc id="44760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44760" title="Amnesia">
Amnesia

Amnesia is a what doctors call a loss or disturbance of memory. In simple terms, it is a loss of memory, that is to say, a person cannot remember certain things. There are two "main types":

Some of the more common amnesias include:

Amnesia can be permanent, or it can be temporary. Damage to the brain, or the use of certain drugs can cause amnesia. Some of these drugs are sedatives. Another well known cause for amnesia can be drinking too much alcohol. Those kinds of causes are called "organic", because they can been directly seen. Other causes cannot directly be seen, they are called "functional". Rather they are psychological in their nature. People may want to shield off a traumatic event they witnessed, for example.


</doc>
<doc id="44761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44761" title="Icarus">
Icarus

Icarus was the son of Daedalus. Daedalus was imprisoned in his own invention, the labyrinth because he helped the hero Theses kill King Minos’s beast, the Minotaur, and run away with King Minos’s daughter, Ariadne. Daedelus came up with a plan. He knew that Minos controlled all escape routes by land or sea, so he decided to go by air. He built wings for himself and Icarus. They found their way out of the labyrinth and flew out of the highest tower. Icarus foolishly ignored his father’s advice to fly on the same route as him so that the sun would not melt the wings and the sea would not dampen them. Icarus got wily because of being able to fly, and flew up higher and higher toward the sun, and the wax in the wings melted and he fell into the sea and drowned. Daedalus looked down towards the sea and saw the feathers floating on the water and figured out what happened. Eventually Daedalus found the body and buried it on the island of Icaria, and the sea which Icarus fell into is now called the Icarian Sea.


</doc>
<doc id="44762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44762" title="Sportscene">
Sportscene

Sportscene is a Scottish television programme. It is about Sports. It is made by BBC Scotland. Dougie Donnelly and Dougie Vipond are the main presenters of the program. Paul Mitchell is the usual commentator for football matches.


</doc>
<doc id="44763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44763" title="Trauma">
Trauma

Trauma is the name doctors have for an injury. Depending on what was injured there are different kinds of traumas.


</doc>
<doc id="44766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44766" title="Madeleine L'Engle">
Madeleine L'Engle

Madeline L'Engle is an American writer. She wrote "A Wrinkle in Time", which won the Newbery Medal. L'Engle was born in 1918 in New York City, New York. A Wrinkle in Time was made into a movie in 2003. Madeleine fought in wars and had a husband named Whistie, who was thought to have died in war from exposure to mustard gas. She died at her home in Connecticut on September 6, 2007. 


</doc>
<doc id="44767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44767" title="Henry Hudson">
Henry Hudson

Henry Hudson (1570-1611) was an English explorer. He died in the Hudson Bay in Canada. Hudson died during an exploration trip when his crew did not want to continue the trip. The crew put Hudson off the ship and into another ship. He was never seen again.

He discovered Hudson Bay and Hudson River in North America. He claimed Hudson Bay for England. He was working for the Dutch when he found Hudson River. He found the Hudson River in 1609 while he was looking for a way to get from North America to Asia by water. This was called the Northwest Passage. 


</doc>
<doc id="44768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44768" title="Clara Bow">
Clara Bow

Clara Gordon Bow was an American actress. She was born July 29, 1905 in Brooklyn, New York United States. She was one of the most famous movie actresses in the history of silent movies. Bow died September 27, 1965 of a heart attack in Los Angeles, California at the age of 60.

Bow acted in 57 movies between 1922 and 1933. She is considered the first American sex symbol after her work in the 1927 movie "It". That movie also created the term "The "It" Girl" meaning the most popular girl at the moment. Bow was the original "It" girl. She was the person every movie studio tried to get in their movies. She was the person who the audiences always want to see more of. She was the focus of media attention.



</doc>
<doc id="44770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44770" title="Temperature regulation">
Temperature regulation

Warm-blooded animals are animals who can control the temperature of their body. When they are cold they "shiver", or shake, to make them warmer. When they are warm they "sweat" to become cooler. This is different from cold-blooded animals who need to move to sunlight to become warmer. 

Warm-blooded animals do not need to move to make them warm or cold, but movement is part of their physiology. This is because all movement by animals creates heat from the chemical reaction of respiration. So polar bears do not freeze because their metabolism produces heat, and movement produces more heat. During hibernation bears exist several degrees lower that they do in active life. 

Warm-blooded animals have thermal insulation: hair, feathers, or in water blubber (thick fat).

Warm blooded animals are homeotherms or homoiotherms; cold-blooded animals are poikilotherms.


</doc>
<doc id="44775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44775" title="Sales quote">
Sales quote

A sales quote is an estimated amount that a person selling something gives to a customer. It is given to show them how much it would cost to have the work done. Many services do not have fixed prices for work. The cost can change depending on the tools, materials and how much work is needed to be done for each customer. The person calculates an estimated amount, and gives this to the customer, so that they can have an idea how much it will cost. 

The sales quote is figured from the information, given by the potential customer, about the work they would like to have done.



</doc>
<doc id="44779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44779" title="MapleStory">
MapleStory

MapleStory is an online computer game made by the Korean company Wizet, and maintained and distributed by Nexon. Playing the game is free, but people can buy clothes and other in-game items from the "Cash Shop" using money. MapleStory has 50 million users. The game has many different versions for people to play on based on location. MapleStory got its name from the maple leaf. Therefore, the game has the maple leaf item during events.

In this increasingly popular game, players create their own avatars and user names. The avatar is initially transported to a “practice” arena where the players experiment with the controls (these controls can also be customized by the player). After this practice round, the avatar is taken to Lith Harbor, where he or she begins the exciting journey. This role-playing game is 2-D, and it includes trade, chat, and mini-games. The main motives of the game are to get a job – the choices are a thief, warrior, magician, bowman, or a pirate – and to level up and become as strong as possible. There are three main “hotspot” levels, and they are levels 30, 70, and 120 because these levels allow for job advancements. Once a player completes the job advancement quests, he or she can acquire more skills and thus undertake stronger monster.

Maple Story can become hard to level up on. This angers some users and is a cause for some cheating. The challenge to level up does helps some people to continue playing because they like a challenge. As for cheating, the game used to be protected by nProtect GameGuard, but now it is protected by HackShield. In other versions, it is protected by Ahnlab. Many players also buy money from websites in which they are not supposed to. MapleStory GMs (Game Masters) try to do everything in their power to prevent these activities from happening.

MapleStory DS (Korean: 메이플스토리 DS) is a Nintendo DS game coming in April 2010, being worked on with Nexon and Nintendo. They said that the Korean put-up date was in 2009.

The game was talked about in E3 2006. On January 9 2007, Nexon and the newly made Nintendo of Korea put up a trailer for the game. They first said the game would be put up in September 2007. It was found out it will be an online game, that works with the Nintendo DS Wi-Fi System. In an interview with the boss of international business development, Stephen Lee said that the game will work in single player. He also said there were going to be microphone and touch-responsive features.



</doc>
<doc id="44781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44781" title="Kiwa hirsuta">
Kiwa hirsuta

Kiwa hirsuta is a crustacean that was first found living on the Pacific Ocean floor at 7200 feet deep, 900 miles south of Easter Island in March 2005. It is about 6 inches long, or 15 centimeters. It looks a little like a crab, but its long arms are covered with yellow fur that looks like silk, so its discoverers, from the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Insititute, named it the Yeti Crab or Yeti Lobster. But it is so different from other crustaceans that it was given its own scientific family, Kiwaidae.



</doc>
<doc id="44783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44783" title="Parallel (geometry)">
Parallel (geometry)

Parallel is a term in geometry and in everyday life that refers to a property of lines or planes. Parallel lines or planes are next to each other, but never touch each other. This means they never intersect at any points. The slopes of parallel lines are always equal.

See how even if these two line segments were extended to infinity, there would never be a point of intersection between the two of them.


</doc>
<doc id="44784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44784" title="Mount Fuji">
Mount Fuji

Mount Fuji (富士山, Fuji-san) is the tallest mountain in Japan, at 

The volcano is classified as active.

The last major event was the Hōei eruption of Mount Fuji which started on December 16, 1707 ("Hōei 4, 23rd day of the 11th month") and ended about January 1, 1708 ("Hōei 4, 9th day of the 12th month") during the Edo period. Cinders and ash from Fuji fell like rain in Izu province, Kai province, Sagami province, and Musashi province.

The mountain is named after Fuchi, the Buddhist fire goddess. The mountain is sacred in the Shinto religion, and at the bottom of the mountain where the entrance to the mountain are shrines to the goddess Konohananosakuya-hime (コノハナノサクヤヒメ）.

Many people climb Mt. Fuji every year. The summer during the 25th of July to 25th of August are the official climbing season. There are three mountain-climbing routes on the Shizuoka side of Mt. Fuji. There is a post office on the top of Mt. Fuji which is open only in summer. It was built in 1909 and is the highest post office in Japan. 


</doc>
<doc id="44785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44785" title="Nu metal">
Nu metal

Nu metal is a style of metal music that uses elements of hip hop and heavy metal music. As well as the normal heavy metal instruments such as guitars, drums and bass. Nu metal bands often include electronic instruments such as DJ decks and keyboards. Nu metal was very successful in the late 1990's and early 2000's. Nu metal bands such as Linkin Park (with more than 50 millions records saled around the world), Korn (with 35 millions), Deftones, Limp Bizkit (with 35 millions) and Slipknot (around 15 millions records) had been the most important bands that made successful this genre.



</doc>
<doc id="44786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44786" title="Category:Science fiction movies">
Category:Science fiction movies

This category is about Science fiction films.


</doc>
<doc id="44792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44792" title="Ketsumeishi">
Ketsumeishi

Ketsumeishi is Japanese hip hop group. It is a four man group. They are "Ryo" and "Ryoji" and "Daizo" and "DJKohno". The group started performing in 1993. They have four albums, three DVDs and 20 singles.


</doc>
<doc id="44793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44793" title="Subaru Impreza">
Subaru Impreza

Impreza is a Japanese automobile. It was made by Subaru. The car was first made in 1992. The design of the car has been changed 3 times in 2000, 2002, and 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="44794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44794" title="Taka and Toshi">
Taka and Toshi

Taka and Toshi are a comedy pair from Hokkaido, Japan. Their favourite gag is "Obei ka!!"


</doc>
<doc id="44795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44795" title="Alain Prost">
Alain Prost

Alain Prost was a French automobile racer and Formula One World Champion. He was born February 24, 1955 in Saint-Chamond, France. His nickname is "Professor".

Prost is the one of the best Formula One drivers. He won the championship four times: 1985, 1986, 1989 and 1993. Only two people have won more times than Prost.

He started driving with Mclaren in 1980. From 1981 until 1983, he was racing for Renault F1. Prost returned to Mclaren in 1984 and raced for them until 1989. During this time he won his first three championships. Prost left Mclaren to race for Scuderia Ferrari in 1990 and 1991. In 1992, Prost took a year off from racing. He returned to racing in 1993 with WilliamsF1. Prost retired from racing after winning his fourth title in that year.

Prost raced in 202 Grand Prix races between 1980 and 1993. He held the record for most wins with 51 until 2001. He was in the pole position in 33 of those races and had the fastest lap time in 41 races.

In his career, Prost beat nearly all his team-mates on total points, including five World Champions. Only in 1980 he lost by a point and in 1984 by half a point.



</doc>
<doc id="44796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44796" title="B'z">
B'z

B'z is a Japanese rock band. It is made up of Takahiro Matsumoto (guitar) and Koshi Inaba (singer). B'z started playing on September 21, 1988. The band has sold more than 70 million CDs. They have had 19 albums sell over 1 million copies each.




</doc>
<doc id="44797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44797" title="K-1">
K-1

K-1 is a kickboxing competition. It is a mix of Kickboxing, Kung fu, Karate and Boxing. It started in 1993. K-1 has fighters from a lot of countries. 


</doc>
<doc id="44798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44798" title="PRIDE Fighting Championships">
PRIDE Fighting Championships

PRIDE Fighting Championships was a mixed martial arts organization based in Japan.(1997-2007) PRIDE held more than sixty mixed martial arts events. As one of the most popular MMA organizations in the world during its ten years of operation, PRIDE broadcast to about 40 countries worldwide.

PRIDE Fighting Championships was first started in 1997 by the match popular Japanese pro-wrestler Nobuhiko Takada with Rickson Gracie, champion of the Gracie family of Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu practitioners. The event, held at the Tokyo Dome on October 11, 1997 attracted 47,000 fans, as well as Japanese mass media attention. The success of the first event enabled its promoters to hold a regular series of mixed martial arts events and grew up to be the most popular mixed martial arts event in Japan.

Match length

PRIDE matches make up of three rounds; the first round is ten minutes, and the second and third round are five minutes. Intermissions between each round were two minutes in length. In PRIDE US events, NSAC Unified MMA rules were used, with non-title matches consisting of three five minute rounds and title matches of 5 five minute rounds both having 60 second intermissions between rounds.

When two rounds of a Grand Prix took place on the same night, Grand Prix bouts consisted of two rounds; the first lasting ten minutes and the second lasting five. Intermissions between each round remained two minutes in length.
Weight classes

・Heavyweight (more than 93 kg / 205 lb) 
・Middleweight (less than or equal to 93 kg / 205 lb) 
・Welterweight (less than or equal to 83 kg / 183 lb) 
・Lightweight (less than or equal to 73 kg / 161 lb)
RING

PRIDE used a five-roped square ring with sides 7 m in length (approximately 23 ft).
Fighter’s clothing

PRIDE allowed fighters latitude in their choice of clothing but open finger gloves, a mouthguard and a protective cup were duty. Fighters were allowed to use tape on parts of their body or to wear a gi top, gi pants (Judo, Jujutsu, Karate), wrestling shoes, kneepads, elbow pads, or ankle supports at their own discretion, though each was checked by the referee before the fight.
Victory

・Subbmission

・A fighter taps either his opponent or the mat three times

・Knockout

・A fighter falls from a legal blow and is either unconscious or unable to continue.

・Technical Knockout

・Referee Stoppage--- The referee sees that one fighter is completely dominant to the point of endangering his opponent, the referee will stop the match.

・Doctor Stoppage---In the event that a fighter is injured (via fair methods) and cannot continue the match, his opponent will be declared the winner. The ring doctor will be the one to determine whether the fighter can continue or not. In the event that an injury was caused by illegal methods, the perpetrator will be disqualified.

・A fighter's corner throws in the towel.

Decision

If the match reaches its time limit then the outcome of the bout is determined by the three judges. The fight is scored in its entirety and not round-by-round. After the third round, each judge must decide a winner. Matches cannot end in a draw. A decision is made according to the following standard in this order of priority:

1.the effort made to finish the fight via KO or submission, 
2.damage given to the opponent, 
3.standing combinations and ground control, 
4.takedowns and takedown defense, 
5.aggressiveness, and 
6.weight (in the case that the weight difference is 10 kg/22 lb or more).

1.Head butting. (Beginning at PRIDE 12) 
2.Eye gouging. 
3.Hair pulling. 
4.Biting. 
5.Fish hooking. 
6.Any attacks to the groin 
7.Strikes to the back of the head, which includes the occipital region and the spine. The sides of the head and the area around the ears are not considered to be the back of the head. (see Rabbit punch) 
8.Small joint manipulation (control of four or more fingers/toes is necessary). 
9.Elbow strikes to the head and face. 
10.Intentionally throwing your opponent out of the ring. 
11.Running out of the ring. 
12.Purposely holding the ropes. Fighters cannot purposely hang an arm or leg on the ropes and it will result in an immediate warning.

Heavyweight（over 93kg）：Fedor Emelianenko（Russia）

Middleweight (under 93kg)：Dan Henderson（USA）

Welterweight（under 83kg）：Dan Henderson（USA）

Lightweight（under 73kg）：Takanori Gomi（Japan）


</doc>
<doc id="44801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44801" title="University of Tokyo">
University of Tokyo

The University of Tokyo is a national university of Japan. It started in 1877.


</doc>
<doc id="44806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44806" title="Category:Riots">
Category:Riots


</doc>
<doc id="44807" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44807" title="Category:Theater">
Category:Theater


</doc>
<doc id="44808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44808" title="Implicit derivatives">
Implicit derivatives

Implicit derivatives are derivative of functions that are not given in formula_1... form.

For example:

If we do not have formula_1... 

formula_9

formula_10

formula_11

formula_12


</doc>
<doc id="44823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44823" title="Howard Carter">
Howard Carter

Howard Carter (May 9, 1874 – March 2, 1939) was an English archaeologist. He was the man who found King Tutankhamun's grave in 1922.


</doc>
<doc id="44828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44828" title="Werder Bremen">
Werder Bremen

The Sport-Verein Werder von 1899 e. V. Bremen is a German football club playing in the city of Bremen. The club was founded in 1899 as "FV Werder" by a group of sixteen high school students. The students had won a football as price in a tug of war competition. In 1920 the name was changed from FV to SV werder Bremen. In this year chess, baseball, cricket and track and field athletics became part of the club. But football was and still is the most important part of the club. 

The name "Werder" is a seldom regional word meaning "River peninsula". The first play ground of Werder Bremen was beside the Weser river. Today they are playing in the Weserstadion.

The club's first team plays in the German Bundesliga. The second team of Werder Bremen is playing in Germanys 3rd league. The women team is playing in the Second Bundesliga. Their colors are green and white (Grün und Weiß).
"Correct as of 12 July 2011"




</doc>
<doc id="44834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44834" title="2004 Redfern riots">
2004 Redfern riots

The Redfern Riots on 14 February 2004 were started in the inner Sydney suburb of Redfern after the death of Thomas 'TJ' Hickey, a 17 year old Australian Aborigine. 

The boy was riding home on his bicycle from his girlfriend's house when he saw a police car and thought it was chasing him. Police were searching him, but police have said that the police car was looking for a different person. While the chase Hickey lost control of his bicycle rode into a spiked fence.

Friends and relatives came together at The Block to be sad. Fliers were given out, which said that it was the fault of the police that the boy died and unhappy aboriginal youths arrived from other parts of Sydney at the Redfern railway station. The police closed the entrance to the station but the crowd had turned violent and began to throw bottles, bricks and Molotov cocktails. The violence became into a full riot around The Block, during which Redfern railway station was burning for a short time and was heavily damaged. The riot went on into the early morning, until police used Fire Brigade water hoses to get the crowd apart. One car, stolen in a western suburb, was burnt, and 40 police officers were hurt.




</doc>
<doc id="44841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44841" title="Fingering">
Fingering

Fingering means: choosing which finger to use for each note when playing a piece on a musical instrument. When learning to play a piece it is important to try to find a good fingering. Once a good fingering has been found it should always be used so that the piece is always played in the same way and the fingers learn “where to go”. Sometimes printed music has some fingering printed above the notes. This can be helpful to the player, but it is not always necessary to use the printed fingering. People’s hands are different and a fingering that is good for one player may not be good for another. 

When playing keyboard instruments the fingers are numbered from 1 to 5 on each hand: the thumb is 1, the index finger is 2, the middle finger is 3, the ring finger is 4 and the little finger is 5. The fingers were not always numbered like that. In Britain in the 19th century the thumb was shown by a cross (+) and the fingers were numbered from 1 to 4. This was known as “English fingering” while the other way (from 1 to 5) was known as “Continental fingering”. However, from the beginning of the 20th century the British used the normal 1 to 5 (Continental) fingering.

Ideas about fingering have changed during the history of music. In the Baroque times (17th and early 18th centuries) French composers writing for the harpsichord often fingered scale passages 2 3 2 3 etc. so that the notes were grouped (slurred) in twos. Later this idea went out of fashion. In the early 19th century Carl Czerny wrote lots of studies for piano which helped to exercise all the fingers equally. This is how we learn to play the piano today.

Fingering for the organ is similar to fingering for the piano. However, organists use a lot of “finger substitution” which means: changing to a different finger while a note is held down. This is useful in music such as hymn tunes which have lots of chords. It helps to make the music legato (smooth): (a pianist can use the right pedal to make chords legato.) An organist playing on the pedals also needs to decide which foot to use for each note. This is called “footing”. A v sign means: play with the toe, a square u sign means: play with the heel. When these signs are placed above the note it means the right foot, below means for the left foot.

Fingering on string instruments will show which position to play in (i.e. how far down the fingerboard the hand is held). The fingers are numbered from 1 to 4 because the thumb is behind the neck of the instrument. The number 0 means: play an open string (not using the finger). It is only the left hand which fingers the notes because the right hand is either plucking or bowing. Bowed instruments like the violin have no markings on the fingerboard, so the player has to get used to the exact place to put the fingers, otherwise it will not be in tune. Plucked instruments such as guitars and banjos have frets (little bumps on the fingerboard) which show where to put the fingers.

Sometimes the fingering printed or written in the music may also need to show which string to play on. A tune that could be played in first position on a D string on the violin could also be played on the G string in fifth position (with the hand much higher up the fingerboard). This is harder to do, but a good player can make it sound particularly warm and beautiful. Sometimes notes can be fingered as harmonics instead of as ordinary stopped notes. This makes them sound very light and airy.

Cellists can also play in “thumb position” if they have several notes which are high and quite near one another. This means putting the thumb high up on the fingerboard, often across two strings.

The double bass is so big that the distances between the notes are very big too. To go up from one note to the next (in semitones) they use finger 1, then 2, then 4. Finger 3 is just helping finger 4 to press down on the string. There are a few players who use a different fingering system: using fingers 1, 2, 3, 4. This means that the hand has to stretch a lot. It is difficult to play in tune like this, although it saves having to change the hand position so much.

Harp music looks like piano music: there are two staves, one which usually has a treble clef for the right hand, the other with a bass clef for the left hand. Some piano music can be played on the harp, but the piano fingering will not work. On a piano, starting with the thumb and going along the fingers to the little finger means going to higher notes in the right hand and to lower notes in the left hand. On the harp it is the other way round (the harpist sits with the high notes nearest to his body). The thumb is numbered 1 and the fingers are 2, 3 and 4. The little finger is not used in harp playing.

In woodwind instruments there is normally one basic fingering, each note is a particular combination of fingers. However at more advanced levels different fingerings can be used in order to create different effects. Beginners’ books may have a fingering chart to show how to get the different notes. A low F sharp on a descant recorder will be fingered 1 2 3 0 2 3. This means: fingers 1, 2 and 3 of the left hand and fingers 2 and 3 of the right hand. The first hole of the right hand position is left open.

On the recorder some of the notes, especially sharps and flats, have complicated fingering. This is called “cross fingering”. The flute, oboe, clarinet and bassoon all have metal keys to help reach the low holes and to make it easier to play the sharps and flats. The usual system for these keys was invented in the 19th century by Theobald Böhm.

Sometimes there is an “alternative fingering” for some notes. This can be used to make it easier to play fast trills, but the usual fingering will sound better for normal notes.

Good fingering is fingering which avoids moving the hand up and down unnecessarily. It should also help the music to sound good e.g. legato music for smooth tunes, clear music for fast repeated notes.


</doc>
<doc id="44842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44842" title="Rhön">
Rhön

The Rhön Mountains are a group of low mountains in central Germany, in the states Hesse, Bavaria and Thuringia. They are the product of ancient volcanic activity and are separated from the Vogelsberg Mountains by the Fulda River and its valley. 

These mountains are a popular tourist attraction. Hikers come for the nearly 6,000 km (3,750 miles) of tracks through the picturesque scenery, and gliding has been done here since the early Twentieth century. Nowadays people come here to stay on a farm during holidays, too.

Since 1991, UNESCO has declared the Rhön a Biosphere Reserve. 

The highest mountains of the Rhön are:



</doc>
<doc id="44843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44843" title="Piece">
Piece

A piece is a bit of something. If something can be cut or broken into several bits, these bits are called "pieces". "Piece" must not be confused with "peace" which is pronounced the same way.

Examples:

The word "piece" can be used in lots of ways to mean "one thing" that belongs to a group of other things:

In music we talk about a "piece of music" meaning a short musical work:

See: .


</doc>
<doc id="44844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44844" title="LZ 129 Hindenburg">
LZ 129 Hindenburg

The LZ 129 Hindenburg was a large German airship, built in 1936. Such airships are called Zeppelin. Along with another Zeppelin, LZ 130 Graf Zeppelin, it was the biggest airship in the world at the time it was built.

The Zeppelin gained lots of publicity and became really famous. The boxer Max Schmeling flew on it back to Germany after defeating Joe Louis in the United States. It was also present during the opening ceremony of the 1936 Summer Olympics which were held in Berlin. This attention was part of the Zeppelin company's plan to offer a fleet of their airships for trans-atlantic service. 

On May 6, 1937, the Hindenburg was landing in New Jersey after a trans-atlantic flight, when it burst into flames. 36 people died and many were injured. Many people think it did this because it was filled with a gas called hydrogen which can catch on fire easily.

An announcer, Herbert Morrison reported the landing and then screamed and said, "Oh the humanity" after it caught on fire. Morrison's line is now famous around the world as well as photos and film footage of the disaster.

The rock group Led Zeppelin used a picture of the fire for cover of their first album.


</doc>
<doc id="44850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44850" title="Vogelsberg Mountains">
Vogelsberg Mountains

The Vogelsberg Mountains are a group of low mountains in central Germany, located in the middle of the state of Hessen. They are the product of ancient volcanic activity and are separated from the Rhön Mountains by the Fulda River and its valley.

The Vogelsberg is about 19 million years old and is Germany's only shield volcano and the largest basalt formation of Central Europe. It consists of many layers which fall downward from their peak in ring-shaped terraces to the base.

The highest mountains of the Vogelsberg are Taufstein, 773 m (2,536 ft), and Hoherodskopf, 763 m (2,503 ft), both are now in a national park, the Hoher Vogelsberg Nature Reserve.


</doc>
<doc id="44852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44852" title="Fulda River">
Fulda River

The Fulda is a river in Hesse, Germany. It is one of two headstreams of the Weser River (the other one being the Werra). The Fulda River is 218 km in length.

The source is in the Rhön mountains. From here it runs northwards through the Weserbergland hills and finally meets the Werra River close to Hannoversch Münden.

Cities along the Fulda River include:



</doc>
<doc id="44853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44853" title="Headstream">
Headstream

Headstream or headwater is a stream that makes a new river or stream at its confluence. They are usually cool waters because of shade and barely melted ice or rain. They may also be glacial headwaters. These are waters made by the melting of the ice of glaciers.



</doc>
<doc id="44854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44854" title="Emo">
Emo

Emo is a kind of music that is short for "emotional hardcore". The genre first formed in the mid-1980s from hardcore punk. In the mid 1990s, emo was known with indie rock music. Once it became mainstream in the 2000s, it became shaped by pop-punk music and skatepunk. Cities like Washington, D.C. were the first to develop the emo movement.

Today, emo is more often associated with fashion than with music. Emo (sometimes referred to as "scene") is a teen subculture, though many people use "emo" as an insult. Emo kids are stereotyped as wearing black clothes, mostly wearing tight shirts, skinny jeans and Converse shoes. They are also stereotyped as having black dyed hair, or naturally colored with streaks or coon-tails, or unnatural-colored with fringe bangs swept to one side. The emo culture is also associated with being depressed and shy and cutting.

The emo culture is sometimes confused with the goth and the scene culture. Goth, scene and emo are similar in some ways, but have many major differences. Especially the emo and scene culture are very similar to each other, by being associated with the same clothes and hairstyles. Emo and scene are therefore more similar to each other then emo and goth are.

One of the founding bands of the emo genre was Rites of Spring. Present emo bands include, Hedley (band), The Used, Circle Takes the Square, and Hawthorne Heights. Older emo bands include Garbage, The Get Up Kids, Sunny Day Real Estate, Gray Matter, Jimmy Eat World and Still Life.

In recent years the term emo has been applied by critics and journalists to a variety of artists, including multi-platinum acts such as Fall Out Boy and My Chemical Romance,and disparate groups such as Paramore and Panic at the Disco, even when they protest the label.



</doc>
<doc id="44856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44856" title="Gonadotropin">
Gonadotropin

Gonadotropins (or Gonadotrophins) are hormones. The two main hormones of the group are Luteinizing Hormone (LH) and Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH). Gonadotropins are hormones that tell the testicles to make sperm or the uterus to release an egg.


</doc>
<doc id="44861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44861" title="De Lorean Motor Company">
De Lorean Motor Company

The De Lorean Motor Company was a car manufacturer formed by John De Lorean in 1975. The company only made one car during its existence - the DMC-12, which has featured in the science fiction series "Back to the Future" as a time machine created by Doc Emmett Brown.

In 1957, John Z. De Lorean decided to create his own sport car. It was one of his childhood dreams. He created the De Lorean Motors Company near Belfast, Northern Ireland, and his project was helped by the British government. His first car, the DMC-12, was produced in 1981. When the car was publicly launched, the car was a success, and 6,539 DMC-12s were produced in 1981. The car was expensive, and regarded as underpowered for its cost. . 

Production of the DMC-12 continued until 1983, when the De Lorean Motors Company had money problems. John Z. De Lorean was later arrested by police for trafficking cocaine. Production of De Lorean cars was stopped.

At present, 6000 De Lorean are used regularly by their owners, and a big majority is located in the USA.


</doc>
<doc id="44865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44865" title="Stargate SG-1">
Stargate SG-1

Stargate SG-1 is a science fiction television program. It takes place after the movie "Stargate". The show started on July 27, 1997 on the TV channel "Showtime", from 1997-2002, and then on the TV channel "Sci Fi", from 2002-2007. The first episode, "Children of the Gods" was two hours long and was rated R because of a scene of nudity. It is the only episode in the series that was rated. The show ended with the episode, "Unending" on March 13, 2007.

The show follows the missions of a secret military operation known as the Stargate Program. It is run out of a base under Cheyenne Mountain, known as Stargate Command (commonly called the SGC). The plot of the show revolves around the flagship team, called SG-1. The team is made up of Colonel Jack O'Neill (Richard Dean Anderson), Dr. Daniel Jackson (Michael Shanks), Major Samantha Carter (Amanda Tapping), and Teal'c (Christopher Judge).




</doc>
<doc id="44867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44867" title="Stargate Atlantis">
Stargate Atlantis

Stargate Atlantis is a television series. It is a spin-off of the "Stargate SG-1" series. The series starts at the beginning of the eighth season of "Stargate SG-1".

The main subject of the seventh season of "Stargate SG-1" was researching and locating the city of the Ancients. At the end of the seventh season, SG-1 discovered that the city is on Earth, under the ices of Antarctica. But it was in fact only a beachhead. Doctor Daniel Jackson finds the coordinates of the real city. Its name is Atlantis (the legendary ancient city), and it's in the Pegasus galaxy. The address was hard to find because it needs eight chevrons, the seventh of which is used to indicate the galaxy.



</doc>
<doc id="44869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44869" title="Code Lyoko">
Code Lyoko

Code Lyoko is a French animated television series.

"Code Lyoko" is about five teenagers who are juggling with their normal school life and a virtual world called Lyoko.

Aelita, Ulrich, Yumi and Odd go into the world called Lyoko. Jeremie does not go into Lyoko. Instead, he is the one who lets them go into lyoko. When the 4 of them are ready to go to lyoko he virtualizes them. Then he tells Aelita, Yumi, Ulrich and Odd where the tower is. When Aelita deactivates the tower Jeremie presses a botton on the supercalculator's keyboard and says "retern to the past now" Also, XANA stole the keys to lyoko from Aelita's memory. Then XANA made replikas of Lyoko and, using the Skidblanir, the lyoko warriors destroy the replicas one by one.

Jeremy Belpois: Jeremie is a very clever boy. He is the best of his class, and even of the school, in all the subjects, except sports. He is also a computer genius. He restarted the supercomputer that contained Lyoko ("see" 3x: XANA Awakens). In the factory, he is the supervisor: he virtualizes the Lyoko warriors and the vehicles, he lets them know the Life Points they still have and where the towers and the monsters are. He has never been seen on Lyoko, but he attempted it a few times. First time, the transfer failed and he was stuck in the Virtual Limbo. The second time, he went to a world parallel to Lyoko, the was made by XANA. The third time, It was successful, but we did not see him, but according to Odd and Ulrich, he looked "ridiculous".

Odd Della Robbia: Odd's vehicle in Lyoko is the overboard to ride around in Lyoko. Odd's attack is laser arrows that come out of his hand and he screams "laser arrow!" Odd is not very good when it comes to school but he always makes you laugh. Odd wears purple and little bit of yellow.

Ulrich Stern: Ulrich is one of the Lyoko warriors. On Lyoko, he is a samurai, and has a katana, and his vehicle is the overbike. He can use "Triplicate" in order to create two clones of himself, and "Supersprint" to run quickly. When he uses both at the same time, it's called "Triangulate". On Earth, he is very mysterious, and does not often speak about himself. He has a crush for Yumi, but they never admit it.

Yumi Ishiyama: Yumi is a Japanese girl. Her vehicle in Lyoko is the overwing. She is a day student at Kadic. She has a crush on Ulrich. She often wears black clothes. She has a brother: Hiroki. In lyoko she wears her traditional Japanese warrior outfit proudly as she defeats XANA's monsters with her metallic fan.

Aelita Schaeffer or Aelita Stones
Aelita is someone who does not really fight. She deactivates the tower that XANA activated and she is the only one who can deactivate towers. However, in the third season she can throw energy fields. In the fourth season, she can fly using wings that are activated by a star wristband.



</doc>
<doc id="44871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44871" title="Enchilada">
Enchilada

Enchilada is a traditional Mexican dish. The words comes from "enchilar", which means "add Chili peppers to something". The traditional enchilada sauce mainly consists of Chile peppers. The basis for the enchilada is tortilla, made from maize. After that,a certain kind of meat (usually birds, like chicken or turkey) is added. Some people also add onions and cheese. 


</doc>
<doc id="44872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44872" title="Sugar Sugar Rune">
Sugar Sugar Rune

Sugar Sugar Rune(シュガシュガルーン) is a Japanese manga and anime. It tells the story of two young witches who are in a competition together. They are trying to become the new queen of their world.

Vanilla and Chocolat are two young witches who are sent in the humans world in order to decide who will become the new queen of their world. Their goal is succeeding in getting colored hearts from boys by being nice to them. When the boys fall in love with them, their feelings turn into a heart that the witches can take with a magic spell. The hearts are different colors for different feelings, such as surprise, love, or jealousy. Each heart can be used like money in their world, and some are worth more than others. Vanilla and Chocolat go to school like regular humans, and they take the hearts of the boys that they see at school and at other places in town. They can also get a heart that represents friendship from other girls, and they learn that it is important for the future Queen to be able to be nice to girls as well as boys. Also, Vanilla and Chocolat are friends, and they decide that they will stay friends no matter who becomes the queen of their world at the end of the competition. 

There are bad guys in their world, though. They are called Ogres, and they like to make people feel jealous of one another or make people hate each other. They use the "Black Hearts" that those bad emotions make as power, and they want to take over the magical world that Vanilla and Chocolat come from. The story shows the competition between Chocolat and Vanilla and how their people handle the Ogres that try to stop their competition. 

Chocolat Meilleure : ("Chocolat Katô" in the world of the humans.) Chocolat is a young witch with a lot of charisma. She is funny and not shy at all. Her personality make her liked in her world, but in her new school, the boys prefer a shy girl like Vanilla. Later on in the story, some of the boys start to like her. Two boys from her own world also like her a lot and want her to be the queen of their world. Chocolat's mother was also in a competition to become the queen before Chocolat was born, but she died when Chocolat was a baby.

Vanilla Mieux : (Vanilla Ice in the world of the humans). Vanilla is the best-friend of Chocolat. She is very shy. She tries to be nice to everyone, but sometimes the boys want her to like them instead of everyone at once. Vanilla's mother is the queen of their world, and she is a very nice person who helps Vanilla and Chocolat from time to time.

Rockin' Robin : Robin is a wizard from Vanilla and Chocolat's world, and the girls in the human world like him a lot. His job is to help Vanilla and Chocolat while they compete to become the queen of their world. He gives them advice about living with humans. 


</doc>
<doc id="44873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44873" title="Byzantine art">
Byzantine art

Byzantine art means the art of the Eastern Roman Empire from about the 5th century until the Fall of Constantinople in 1453. (The Roman Empire during this period is conventionally known as the Byzantine Empire.)

But the term can also be used for the art of states at the same time as the Byzantine Empire which had a common culture with it, such as Bulgaria, Serbia, or Rus; and also for the art of the Republic of Venice and Kingdom of Sicily, which had close ties to the Byzantine Empire though they were part of western European culture as well. Art produced by Balkan and Anatolian Christians who lived in the Ottoman Empire is often called "post-Byzantine." Certain traditions that originated in the Byzantine Empire, particularly in regard to icon painting and church architecture, are maintained in Greece, Russia and other Eastern Orthodox countries till now. 




</doc>
<doc id="44874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44874" title="Hel (realm)">
Hel (realm)

Hel is one of the nine worlds of Norse mythology. It is where the dead people are. Its ruler is the goddess Hel. Hel is located under the roots of the tree Yggdrasil. It can be reached via the river Gjöll. A bridge spans this river. The bridge is garded by the giantess Modgrudr. Garm, a dog, guards the entrance to the castle of Hel. He lets the dead souls enter. They cannot get out though. A rooster is the companion of Garm. When the rooster in the realm of the gods will wake them for Ragnarök, this rooster will wake the souls of the dead. 

The dragon Nidhögg eats from the corpses of deceased criminals. A wolf also eats from these.


</doc>
<doc id="44882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44882" title="Wrigley, Northwest Territories">
Wrigley, Northwest Territories

Wrigley is a Canadian community in the Northwest Territories.
The population in 2001 was 165. In 1996 it was 167.


</doc>
<doc id="44883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44883" title="Category:Arthurian legend">
Category:Arthurian legend


</doc>
<doc id="44891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44891" title="Stress">
Stress

Stress could mean:






</doc>
<doc id="44901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44901" title="Tabulating machine">
Tabulating machine

The tabulating machine was a machine used to make the 1890 United States census. It was made by Herman Hollerith. Hollerith's machine used punched cards to store information with by categorisation.


</doc>
<doc id="44905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44905" title="FreeBASIC">
FreeBASIC

FreeBASIC is a programming language like QuickBASIC. It is free and open source. It has many advanced things that other BASIC programming languages do not have. FreeBASIC can make graphical programs or console mode programs. It runs on DOS, Linux, and Microsoft Windows.

The FreeBASIC compiler can create itself.


</doc>
<doc id="44914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44914" title="Category:Comic strips">
Category:Comic strips

Newspapers


</doc>
<doc id="44915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44915" title="Category:Comics">
Category:Comics


</doc>
<doc id="44916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44916" title="Category:Comic books">
Category:Comic books


</doc>
<doc id="44917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44917" title="Category:DC Comics">
Category:DC Comics


</doc>
<doc id="44918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44918" title="Category:Manga">
Category:Manga


</doc>
<doc id="44921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44921" title="Category:Pixar">
Category:Pixar


</doc>
<doc id="44931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44931" title="Bohrium">
Bohrium

Bohrium is a chemical element. At the periodic table of the elements it is at position 107. It is named after Niels Bohr.


</doc>
<doc id="44932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44932" title="Fermium">
Fermium

Fermium (symbol Fm) is a chemical element. It has an atomic number of 100, which makes it at position 100 at the periodic table. Fermium cannot be found in nature; it has to be made. Scientists can create it by combining plutonium with neutrons at very high speeds and temperatures. It is named after Enrico Fermi.

Albert Ghiorso and other scientists at the University of California, Berkeley first discovered fermium. They found the element in the fallout from the explosion of the first successful hydrogen bomb test. This test was on November 1, 1952. In the fallout, scientists also discovered another new element, Einsteinium. Because of the Cold War, the US military did not allow the scientists to publish their results in a scientific journal. However, they conducted other studies and published their research in 1954. The studies of nuclear fallout were declassified and published in 1955.

A group in the Nobel Institute for Physics in Stockholm also discovered isotopes of this element before the research of the Berkeley scientists was published. However, most agree that the Berkeley scientists were the first to discover fermium.


</doc>
<doc id="44933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44933" title="Potash">
Potash

Potash is a generic term for a chemical compound. It means the mixture of potassium hydroxide and potassium carbonate left over in ashes. The wood was burnt to produce ashes, which were dissolved in water. The potash was then reacted with fat to produce soap.



</doc>
<doc id="44947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44947" title="Longitudinal wave">
Longitudinal wave

In a longitudinal wave, the particles do not move with the wave. The particle movement is parallel to the direction of the wave propagation. This means that the particles move left and right which in turn makes the other particles start to oscillate. This creates a wave. longitudinal pressure waves are also known as sound waves.


</doc>
<doc id="44949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44949" title="Southbridge, Massachusetts">
Southbridge, Massachusetts

Southbridge is a city in the American state of Massachusetts. The city's nickname is "The Eye of the Commonwealth". It has a population of about 18,000. 

Southbridge has a lot of history and tradition. The city was once home to the largest optical manufacturer in the world: American Optical. American Optical moved somewhere in Mexico where workers would be paid smaller wages. It is now called the Mexican Optical. Southbridge has a great economy. It is often called a mixing pot of cultures. There are many different ethnic groups in Southbridge.


</doc>
<doc id="44950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44950" title="Tibetan language">
Tibetan language

The Tibetan language is a language of Tibet and parts of China, parts of Northern Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir in the Ladakh area, the Republic of India states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttaranchal, Nepal and nearly all of Bhutan. Tibetan is spoken by a lot of Buddhists in these countries. It is an old language that has been spoken for many centuries. It is also a language of China that is spoken by some people above the region of Tibet. It is spoken in other places as well as Tibet. It is a fairly popular language to the Buddhists everywhere in the world including the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="44956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44956" title="Aschaffenburg">
Aschaffenburg

Aschaffenburg is a German city in the west of Franconia. It has a population of about 68,000. It is a part of the European metropolitan area of Frankfurt am Main.


</doc>
<doc id="44957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44957" title="Most Valuable Player">
Most Valuable Player

In sports, a Most Valuable Player award is an honour given to the player or players of a team that performed better than the other players throughout a league or contest. It was first used in professional sports, but is now used a lot in amateur sports and other things unrelated to sports, such as business and music awards. A similar award used in sports, often in soccer, is man of the match.


</doc>
<doc id="44959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44959" title="MVP">
MVP

MVP could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="44964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44964" title="Stoat">
Stoat

A stoat (or a short tailed weasel) is a small mammal of the family Mustelidae. Males are bigger than females. Stoats are also called ermines. They can grow to be as long as 30 centimeters. They eat other small animals and bird eggs, and can kill animals bigger than themselves. They can also store food for later. They kill by biting the neck of their prey at the place where the skull attaches to the rest of the body, cutting the brain stem. 

Stoats are long and thin with short legs, small ears, and thick warm fur. Their fur is brown, but changes to white in the winter. The tail has a black tip all year round. Stoats have a good sense of smell, and they talk and hunt using smell. They do not see color as well as humans, but they can see better at night. Stoats are not nocturnal, and are most active during dawn and dusk. Like skunks, stoats can spray a bad smelling fluid when they are scared. They are also good at climbing trees. 

Stoats live in temperate, subarctic northern areas. They live in parts of Europe, Asia, and North America. They were also brought to New Zealand by people. In New Zealand they are considered bad because they kill too many native animals.

Stoats live alone and are territorial. They mate once a year and have several babies, which are called kits. The kits may not develop for 8-9 months after the female becomes pregnant. When weather conditions are good and there is plenty of food, the kits begin to grow and are born within a month. The males do not help raise the babies. 


</doc>
<doc id="44966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44966" title="Icon (disambiguation)">
Icon (disambiguation)

An icon , from the Greek word for image, is a picture of something holy or divine. Icons in this sense are in use mainly in Eastern Christianity. Look in the article Icon for this meaning.

Iconography is the study of all types of images, such as their history and meaning. This is mostly used in art history. The word can also mean "symbolism".

In other use, an "icon" is a Pictogram for an object, facility, control, political party, government, or something like this. See Icon (secular).

Icon may also mean:

In computing:


Other uses:


</doc>
<doc id="44968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44968" title="Icon">
Icon

An icon (from the Greek language: , "eikon", "image") is an image, picture, or representation which has a religious meaning. It is a sign or a likeness that stands for a real object or person. Although the word "icon" can be used for images of other religions, it is most often used to describe a painting on a wooden panel that has been done in the Orthodox Christian tradition, and may also be used for carved ivory panels and panels of silver or gold. These icons show a holy being such as Jesus, Mary, a saint or an angel. They also show scenes from the Bible such as the Crucifixion and scenes from lives of the saints. In Orthodox Christianity an icon is thought of as a window through which a person can get a view of God's truth. 

The traditional way of making an icon was used in Egypt in Early Christian times to make portraits of dead people to use for their funerals. Like icons, these funeral portraits were done on a wooden panel and the paint was mixed with yolk of egg. From the time that Christianity was made legal by the Emperor Constantine in the early 300s, artists began to use the same method for painting holy pictures. 

It was always hoped that a painting would last for a long time, so everything had to be very carefully prepared. A board had to be chosen that would not crack or warp (bend), and which did not have any knotty bits that might fall out. The board was sanded smooth and then coated with a gluey paint called "size" which would hold the coloured paint well, but stop the expensive colours from being soaked up by the wood. The artist would prepare the paints very carefully. Some of the colours were made from gound-up semi-precious stones. Others were made from chemicals. 

Before the artist could start on the panel, he had to prepare the design. It was not important for the artist to think of something new and different. It was much more important that he could copy another icon very accurately. The same designs were used over and over. 

Although all icons were thought of as a window to Heaven, some icons were believed to have special properties. It was believed that praying and lighting candles before some icons would bring healing, or the help of the saint who was shown in the picture. These icons became very famous and were often copied. 

After the artist had drawn the design onto the surface of the size in thin green or brown paint, he would put the paint on in layers, building up the colours bit by bit. Most of the colours were quite transparent and this made the painting look glowing. When the figures were finished the artist would set the work in a wooden frame and "gild" it by covering the background with a little pieces of gold leaf that had been beaten into very thin sheets. When a candle was lit near the icon, it shone on the gold surface and made the figures stand out.

Throughout history, some religions such as Christianity and Hinduism, have often used images such as paintings and statues, while others, such as Judaism and Islam, do not often use images of people. 

In Hinduism there is much use of sacred objects because there is a belief in murti, the idea that the Spirit of God can be present in an "icon" (or holy object). 






</doc>
<doc id="44973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44973" title="Eastern Christianity">
Eastern Christianity

Eastern Christianity means the Christian traditions and churches which developed in Greece, the Balkans, Eastern Europe, Asia Minor, the Middle East, northeastern Africa and southern India over several centuries of religious antiquity. That are especially four families of churches: the Assyrian Church of the East, the Eastern Orthodox Churches, Oriental Orthodoxy, and the Eastern Catholic Churches. 

On the other hand there are the" Western" traditions of Christianity which mainly represented by the Roman Catholic Church.



</doc>
<doc id="44985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44985" title="Love Hina">
Love Hina

Love Hina is a Japanese manga. It was created by Ken Akamatsu. It tells the story Keitarô Urashima. Urashima is a Japanese student who tried to enter the famous university of Tokyo (Todai or Tokyô Daigaku). "Love Hina" exists also as an animated series.

Keitarô Urashima is a 19 year-old boy who try to study at the well known university of Todai. He tried three times and failed. He finally decides to go to the hotel of his aunt, the Hinata Hotel. When he got to the hotel, he found that it has been changed into a girls' hotel. The first time he met the people living in the hotel, they were not very happy to see him. Slowly, they began to accept him, even if he is clumsy and a pervert.



</doc>
<doc id="44986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44986" title="Super Nintendo Entertainment System">
Super Nintendo Entertainment System

The Super Nintendo Entertainment System (often shortened to "SNES" or "Super NES") is a 16-bit video game console created by Nintendo. It was called the Super Famicom in Japan, and the Super Comboy in South Korea. The console can display 2D graphics. Super NES games are loaded from a cartridge. Sony asked Nintendo to create a peripheral CD-ROM reader for the Super NES, but the project, named "Playstation", was abandoned and Sony decided to create their own video game console, and they named it the PlayStation.



</doc>
<doc id="44989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44989" title="Sega Saturn">
Sega Saturn

The Sega Saturn is a 32-bit video game console made by Sega. It was released in Japan on November 22 1994, in the United States on May 11 1995, and in Europe on July 8 1995. Games were released on CD-ROMs. It is followed by the Dreamcast. The Saturn was the first Sega video game console which can display 3D graphics. Accessories were available for the Sega Saturn, including a gun controller which was used to play "Virtua Cop", and an analog controller.

The console was called Saturn because it was Sega's sixth games console, and Saturn is the sixth planet of the solar system.
The Sega Saturn was quite popular in Japan and/or France, because of the commercial with Segata Sanshiro, a man who devoted his life to the Sega Saturn. The Japanese Sega Saturn was black, and it was later changed to gray.

In North America, the Saturn was not nearly as popular as it was in Japan and/or France. When it was first released, there were only a few games available. That caused the PlayStation to be more popular in Europe.


</doc>
<doc id="44998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44998" title="Iðunn">
Iðunn

Iðunn is a goddess in Norse Mythology. She is the goddess of youth, wife of Bragi, god of poetry. She guards the golden apples. These apples are eaten by the Norse gods to let them live until Ragnarok, the battle of the end of the world.


</doc>
<doc id="45001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45001" title="Goldeneye 007">
Goldeneye 007

Goldeneye 007 is a video game on the Nintendo 64. It follows the story of the movie GoldenEye. The main character of the game is James Bond, Agent 007. It is a 3D first person shooter style game. Its multiplayer mode is very popular, and critically acclaimed.


There are 2 bonus missions.

The game is one of the worlds most highly acclaimed FPS games and has been rated highly on many lists. Screwattack.com for instance put it first on its list of top ten FPS games snatching the title away from games like Halo and Half life 2. 


</doc>
<doc id="45008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45008" title="List of dinosaurs">
List of dinosaurs

The following is a list of dinosaurs. Some of them, such as Archaeopteryx, are considered to be birds. Some doubtful Mesozoic birds are included in this list. 

<onlyinclude>

















































</doc>
<doc id="45012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45012" title="Oronzio Maldarelli">
Oronzio Maldarelli

Oronzio Maldarelli was an Italian born American sculptor and artist. He was born in 1892. He came to the United States from Naples, Italy as a child. He died in 1963 at the age of 71.

At age fourteen, he took lessons in drawing and clay modeling. After two years, he started to study at the National Academy of Design with Leon Kroll, Ivan Olinsky, and Hermon McNeil. In 1912, he entered the Beaux-Arts Institute. It was there that Jo Davidson and Elie Nadelman helped him out. He was a great artist at everything. In 1935, he turned his focus to just sculpting. Maldarelli is best known for sculptures of female forms that have great detail. Some of them took as long as 13 years. In 1941, Maldarelli won the Logan Prize ($500) for a detailed sculpture of a limestone head. He was a teacher at Columbia University for many years, teaching the art of sculpting. 


</doc>
<doc id="45024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45024" title="Brights">
Brights

The Brights is a group that was started by Paul Geisert and Mynga Futrell to make a name that sounds good for people who have views on life based on nature (naturalistic worldviews). They did not like that names like "atheist" and "non-believer" sounded bad to some people and they wanted a word that sounded better to these people.

Paul Geisert chose the word "bright." Mynga Futrell says a bright is a person who has views on life that are free of more-than-natural (supernatural) ideas. She says these persons' morals come from their views on life.


Some people, both religious and non-religious, do not like the Brights using the word "bright" in this way. They believe it suggests that people with views on life based on nature are smarter than those with other views on life. However, this is not why the name was chosen; it tries to show that people with views based on nature are "looking on the "bright" side" of life.



</doc>
<doc id="45027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45027" title="Dish">
Dish

Dish can mean a plate or pan for food or a kind of food prepared for a meal. 

Some radio antennas are in the shape of dishes.

If a family makes salad, chicken, and pasta for a meal, each part of a meal (the salad, the chicken, and the pasta) is a separate dish.


</doc>
<doc id="45029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45029" title="Hinge">
Hinge

A hinge is something that connects two objects and lets them rotate. The most common examples are the hinges that connect doors to walls or door frames. To open a door on hinges, one pushes the side far from the hinges and the door rotates around the side with hinges.

Hinges can be very large or very small. Small hinges are used for jewelery boxes and other small things with lids. Very large hinges have been used at the bottom of buildings, to let a building sit on loose soil or mud without breaking.


</doc>
<doc id="45032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45032" title="Visible light">
Visible light

Visible light is the light that can be seen by the human eye. It is a small part of the spectrum of light and radiation given off by stars like the sun.

Light is electromagnetic radiation that is in the form of a wave. Each wave has a wave length or frequency. The human eye sees each frequency as a different color. Rainbows show the entire spectrum of visible light. The separate colors, moving in from the outer edges, are usually listed as red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet. Other colors can be seen only with special cameras or instruments: outside of red is infrared, and inside of violet is ultraviolet.

Light and color are forms of analog information. However, electronic cameras and computer displays work with digital information. So, electronic cameras or document scanners make a digital version of a color image by separating out the full color image into separate red, green, and blue images. Later, a digital display uses pixels of just those three colors. Computer screens use only these three colors in different brightness levels. The brain combines them to see all of the other colors in the image. 

People think of objects as having color. Scientist explain this because the molecules that make up the object absorb certain light waves, leaving the other light waves to bounce off. The human eye sees the wave lengths of all of the light that was not absorbed, and the combination of those leaves the brain with the impression of a color.


</doc>
<doc id="45036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45036" title="Instrument">
Instrument

An instrument can be mean refer to several things. An instrument is an object used to do something. It is a tool.



</doc>
<doc id="45039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45039" title="Producer">
Producer

Producer is something that creates one thing or one being. Producer is related to reproducer, which means to produce again.

In the entertainment industry, a producer is a person who makes things happen. The producer is of the person in charge of providing the money and hire people to do the job. It is also the job of the producer to deal with getting whatever is being made out to the public. A movie producer must find people to provide money to make the movie, hire the main actors and director for the movie, and get the movie distributed so that people can see it. Producers are commonly found dealing with movies, television, and music.

In large entertainment companies, the title of executive producer is often given to people who provide a large amount of money to get something created. Other executive producers speak for the CEO of the company on how the movie or television program is made.

In smaller companies, especially for television series, the executive producer is often the creator of the series. Main writers who have been with the series for a long time are often given the title of executive producer.


</doc>
<doc id="45040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45040" title="Italian wine">
Italian wine

Italian wines are those produced in Italy, the oldest wine producing region, and are considered to be among the best wines in the world. Wine is a popular beverage in Italy. Many Italians drink it with every meal and in-between, and offer it to guests as soon as they arrive. 

Depending on the vintage, Italy is the world's largest or second largest producer of wine, along with France (each country is generally the source of around 1/5 of the world's overall production). 

In 2005, Italy was second globally, producing about 20% of the global production of wine compared to France, which produced 22%.

In 2005, Italy's share in dollar value of table wine imports into the U.S. was 32%, Australia's was 24%, and France's was 20%. Italian and Australian share has rapidly increased in recent years.

Grapes are grown in almost every part of Italy, with more than 1 million vineyards under cultivation. Each region is proud of its carefully tended, neatly pruned vines.
Italian wines tend to be acidic, dry, light-to-medium bodied, with lots of flavour and smell. Because of these characteristics, Italian wines are, in general, better drunk with food than they are beverages to be enjoyed on their own.

In some places the vines are trained along low supports. In others they climb as slender saplings. The people of each region are also proud of the wine they make from their own grapes. 

Most winemaking in Italy is done in modern wineries. But villagers, making wine for their own use, sometimes tread the grapes with their bare feet until the juice is squeezed out. They believe this ancient method still makes the best wine. 


</doc>
<doc id="45043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45043" title="SG Essen">
SG Essen

The SG Essen (German: Startgemeinschaft Essen) is a swimming club in Essen (North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany). It is a union of the swimming sections of 13 sports clubs. The SG Essen is one of the most successful swimming clubs in West Germany. The women's team is in the first Bundesliga (national league), the men's team in the second.

The SG Essen's breaststroke swimmers are well known: Mark Warnecke, Anne Poleska, and Rebecca Horstmann. The chief trainer is Horst Melzer.



</doc>
<doc id="45053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45053" title="Western civilization">
Western civilization

Western civilization or Western culture is made up of North America, Central America, South America, and Europe from Iceland to Moscow, Russia, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines. Western civilization was defined by the Historian Arnold Toynbee as that part of the world in which those who practice the Christian religion are a majority. By this definition, parts of Africa would now also be part of Western civilization since many Africans have been converted to Christianity since the 1950s. The most common languages spoken in Western civilization are English, Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, Dutch, Italian, Russian, and Tagalog. 


</doc>
<doc id="45060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45060" title="E (mathematical constant)">
E (mathematical constant)

e is a number, about 2.71828. It is a mathematical constant. "e" also has other names, like "Euler's number" (because of the Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler), or "Napier's constant" (because of the Scottish mathematician John Napier). It is an important number in mathematics, like π and "i." It is an irrational number, which means it is impossible to write as a fraction with two integers; but some numbers, like 2.71828182845904523536, come close to the true value. The true value of "e" is a number that never ends. Euler himself gave the first 23 digits of e.

The number "e" is very important for exponential functions. For example, the exponential function applied to the number one, has a value of "e". 

There are many different ways to define "e". Jacob Bernoulli who discovered e, was trying to solve the problem:

In other words, there is a number that the expression formula_2 approaches if n is made very big. This number is "e". 

Another definition is to find the solution of the following formula:

The first 200 digits after the decimal point are:


</doc>
<doc id="45062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45062" title="Monster">
Monster

The term Monster can mean different things.



</doc>
<doc id="45065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45065" title="Template:Vgrelease">
Template:Vgrelease


</doc>
<doc id="45069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45069" title="Platelet">
Platelet

A platelet is a cell fragment that circulates in the blood. Platelets are involved in haemostasis through the making of blood clots. A low platelet count (number of platelets in the blood) can cause a person to bleed without their blood clotting (making scabs). A high platelet count can increase the risk of thrombosis (blood clots inside blood vessels), which stops blood from flowing properly.

Platelets do not have a cell nucleus. They are disc-shaped, and are 1.5 to 3 micrometers in diameter. The body does not have a lot of platelets, so they can all be used up quickly. They contain RNA, a canalicular system, and several different types of granules; lysosomes (containing acid hydrolases), dense bodies (containing ADP, ATP serotonin and calcium) and alpha granules (containing fibrinogen, factor V, vitronectin, thrombospondin and von Willebrand factor), the contents of which are released when the platelet is activated.


</doc>
<doc id="45071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45071" title="Eastern Europe">
Eastern Europe

Eastern Europe is the eastern region of Europe. The term "Eastern Europe" still means such European countries that until the end of the Cold War were Post-Soviet states in Europe or states in Europe that once belong to the Soviet Union.

Following are Eastern Europe countries:



Academic Institutions



</doc>
<doc id="45072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45072" title="Eastern Bloc">
Eastern Bloc

The term Eastern Bloc referred to the former Communist states of Eastern and Central Europe, including the countries of the Warsaw Pact, along with Yugoslavia and Albania, which were not aligned with the Soviet Union after 1948 and 1960 respectively.

Communist governments were initially installed in a Bloc politics process that included extensive political and media controls, along with a Soviet approach to restricting emigration. Events such as the Tito-Stalin split and Berlin Blockade prompted stricter control. While the Bloc persisted through revolts, such as the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, its command economies experienced inefficiencies and stagnation preceding the Bloc's dissolution. 



</doc>
<doc id="45091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45091" title="Truthiness">
Truthiness

Truthiness is a word used by Stephen Colbert. It was first used on October 17, 2005 in the first episode of the television show "The Colbert Report". The word is used to describe something that feels truthful. Facts and logic have nothing to do with truthiness. The truthiness of something is only measured by it instinctively feeling correct.

The word was picked as the word of the year for 2005 by the American Dialect Society on January 6, 2006. It was also selected by the Merriam-Webster dictionary on December 10, 2006 as its 2006 Word of the Year . It beat the term "google" to get Word of the Year.

On the October 5 2005 Cobert Report, Stephen Colbert has this to say about truthiness:



</doc>
<doc id="45096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45096" title="Multi-core processor">
Multi-core processor

A multi-core CPU is a computer processor which has two or more sections. Each section of the chip executes instructions as if it was a separate computer. The actual processors are still on one chip. On this chip every core looks mostly like the other. They are several mostly independent cores which work together in parallel. A dual-core processor is a multi-core processor with two independent microprocessors. A quad-core processor is a multi-core processor with four independent microprocessors. As you can see, the name of the processor is based on the number of the microprocessors on the chip.

Until 2005 single-core processors outnumbered multi-core processors. In the years before there were only multi-core solutions used in individual cases. In the majority of cases they enhanced the frequency. But at a frequency about 4 GHz the CPU would get too hot and take a lot of electricity. This was the point when multi-core processors became more important. Therefore the demand for multi-core processors increased. In the second half of 2006 the best processors were dual-core processors. Since 2006 the development has gone on, so that the new processors get four or more independent microprocessors. Today, single-core processors are not used in new personal computers. But they remain popular in embedded systems. 



In the next years the trend will go to multi-core processors more and more.
The main reason is that they are faster than single-core processors and they can be still improved. But in the future there will be still some applications for single-core processors because not every system needs a fast processor.


</doc>
<doc id="45104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45104" title="Western Bloc">
Western Bloc

The Western Bloc during the Cold War means the powers allied with the United States and NATO against the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact. 

Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact were called the "Eastern Bloc". This term was rather common, while the governments and press of the Western Bloc used to speak of themselves as the "Free world". 


</doc>
<doc id="45106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45106" title="Free world">
Free world

The Free World is a term that was used during the era of the Cold War. It was often used by non-communist nations to describe themselves. It was used to describe the greater personal freedom that the people of non-communist countries (such as the United States and Western Europe) had compared to the Soviet Union and its East European allies. 

On the other hand, many of the non-communist countries that were allied with the "Free World" during the Cold War repressed people and sometimes had dictators as their leaders. This included countries in South America, Asia and Africa.

The President of the United States was often called the "leader of the Free World". This was very common especially in the United States itself. The President of the U.S. is sometimes still called this.

Neil Young sang a song called "(Keep on) Rockin' in the Free World".


</doc>
<doc id="45114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45114" title="2006 Dublin riots">
2006 Dublin riots

The 2006 Dublin riots were a series of riots. They happened in Dublin, Ireland on 25 February 2006. The riots happened after the Gardai (police) tried to move a crowd of people who were blocking the road as a protest against a unionist demonstration. Fourteen people where hurt in the riots. Six of the people hurt were police.


</doc>
<doc id="45115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45115" title="List of acronyms and initialisms">
List of acronyms and initialisms














"Italic text"==R==





XWD - Cross Wheel Drive


</doc>
<doc id="45117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45117" title="Warsaw Pact">
Warsaw Pact

The Warsaw Pact or Warsaw Treaty Organization was officially named the Treaty of Friendship, Co-operation and Mutual Assistance, and was an organization of Central and Eastern European Communist states. 

It was established in 1955 in Warsaw, Poland against the NATO. The Pact lasted till the end of the Cold War when some members left in 1991, following the collapse of the Eastern bloc and political changes in the Soviet Union. The treaty was signed in Warsaw, on May 14, 1955 and official copies were made in the languages of Russian, Polish, Czech and German.


All the Communist states of Central and Eastern Europe signed except Yugoslavia.


</doc>
<doc id="45118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45118" title="Central Europe">
Central Europe

Central Europe is the region lying between the areas of Eastern and Western Europe. In addition, Northern, Southern and Southeastern Europe mean different regions, but in some way they may or overlap into Central Europe. The term has come back into fashion since the end of the Cold War, which had divided Europe politically into East and West, with the Iron Curtain splitting "Central Europe" in half. The understanding of the concept of "Central Europe" varies considerably from nation to nation, and also has from time to time.
The region usually means: 


</doc>
<doc id="45120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45120" title="Four-wheel drive">
Four-wheel drive

A Four-wheel drive (also called 4WD, 4x4 ("four by four"), all-wheel drive, or AWD ) is a vehicle on which all four wheels get power from the engine to move forward. 4WDs are often used off road.


</doc>
<doc id="45123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45123" title="Category:1451 births">
Category:1451 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1451.


</doc>
<doc id="45131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45131" title="2D">
2D

2D or two-dimensional uses two measurements of an object: width and length, like a square. Two-dimensional objects do not have depth, like a cube. It's a mathematics tool, but it's also used in video games, and computer science. 

Throughout maths, it is used in geometry and other categories.

In video games, it is used as a perspective, like in Grand Theft Auto 1 and 2.


</doc>
<doc id="45133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45133" title="MediaWiki:Undo-summary">
MediaWiki:Undo-summary

Undid revision $1 by ()

</doc>
<doc id="45137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45137" title="Microraptor">
Microraptor

Microraptor was a small feathered dinosaur related to Velociraptor. It had flight feathers, and could glide and fly. About two dozen well-preserved fossil specimens have been recovered from Liaoning, China. They are from the Lower Cretaceous Jiufotang Formation, 125 million years old. 

Adult specimens are 42–83 centimeters (1.4–2.7 ft) long, so "Microraptor" was one of the smallest dinosaurs.

"Microraptor" is one of a number of 'dinobirds' found in the same area of China. They were buried in volcanic ash during huge eruptions.

"Microraptor" was among the first non-avian dinosaurs discovered with the impressions of feathers and wings. Three specimens of "M. zhaoianus" have been described in detail, in addition to two specimens of "M. gui" and three specimens of "M. sp." described by Xu and colleagues in 2003, from which most feather impressions are known.
Unusual even among early birds and feathered dinosaurs, "Microraptor" is one of the few known bird precursors to sport long flight feathers on its feet as well as its forearms and hands. This led Xu Xing to describe it as a "four winged dinosaur", and to speculate that it may have glided using all four limbs for lift. Their bodies had a thick covering of feathers. A diamond-shaped fan on the end of the tail gave stability during flight. 

Sankar Chatterjee found that, in order for "Microraptor" to glide or fly, the fore and hind wings must have been on different levels (as on a biplane) and not overlaid (as on a dragonfly). Using this biplane model, he calculated possible methods of gliding, and determined that "Microraptor" most likely launched itself from a perch, swooped downward in a deep 'U' shaped curve and then lifted again to land on another tree. The feathers not directly employed in the biplane wing, like those on the tibia and the tail, could have been used to control and alter the flight path. The hind wings would also have helped control the gliding flight. 

Chatterjee also used computer algorithms to test whether or not "Microraptor" was capable of true, powered flight, in addition to gliding. The data showed that "Microraptor" could sustain some level powered flight, so it is possible that the animal flew as well as glided.


</doc>
<doc id="45140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45140" title="Opera (web browser)">
Opera (web browser)

Opera is a set of tools for the Internet that includes a web browser, e-mail, webfeed reader, and IRC Chat. There are versions available for several operating systems. These include Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Solaris, FreeBSD, and Linux. There are also version for mobile phones, personal digital assistants, game consoles, and interactive televisions.

Opera is developed by Opera Software which is based in Oslo, Norway.

Opera was first started in 1994 at Telenor, which is Norway's largest telecommunications company. In 1995, Opera became its own company called Opera Software ASA.

Opera was first released publicly with version 2.0 in 1996, which only ran on Microsoft Windows. With the release of Opera 4.0 in the year 2000, other operating systems were supported.



</doc>
<doc id="45149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45149" title="Orange (disambiguation)">
Orange (disambiguation)

Orange can mean:

Places in the United States:

Places in South Africa:

Other places in the world:


</doc>
<doc id="45150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45150" title="Orange (fruit)">
Orange (fruit)

An orange is a type of citrus fruit which people often eat. Oranges are a very good source of vitamins, especially vitamin C.. Orange juice is an important part of many people's breakfast. The "sweet orange", which is the kind that are most often eaten today, grew first in Asia but now grows in many parts of the world. 

Oranges are round orange-coloured fruit that grow on a tree which can reach 10 metres high. Orange trees have dark green shiny leaves and small white flowers with five petals. The flowers smell very sweet which attracts many bees. 

An orange has a tough shiny orange skin. Inside, the fruit is divided into "segments", which have thin tough skins that hold together many little sections with juice inside. There are usually ten segments in an orange, but sometimes there are more. Inside each segment of most types of orange there are seeds called "pips". Orange trees can be grown from pips, but some types of orange trees can only be grown from "cuttings" (a piece cut off a tree and made to grow roots). The segments and the skin are separated by white stringy stuff called "pith". In most types of oranges, the skin can be peeled off the pith, and the segments can be pulled apart with the fingers to be eaten. In some oranges it is hard to take the skin off. With mandarin oranges, the skin, pith and segments can all be pulled apart very easily. Orange skin is often called "orange peel". 

Oranges are an important food source in many parts of the world for several reasons. They are a commonly available source of vitamin C. The juice is a refreshing drink. They last longer than many other fruits when they are stored. They are easy to transport because each orange comes in its own tough skin which acts as a container. They can be piled into heaps or carried in bags, lunchboxes and shipping containers without being easily damaged.

The colour orange takes its name from the fruit. The word "orange" is unusual because it is one of only a few English words that does not rhyme with anything.

Sweet orange trees were brought to Italy, Spain and Portugal from India in the fifteenth century (1400s). Before that time only sour oranges were grown in Italy. From Europe, orange trees were taken to the United States, South America, Africa and Australia, which all grow oranges for sale. 

There are several different types of sweet orange. One of the most common types is called the "Valencia" orange, which comes from Spain and is also grown in Africa and Australia. It is one of the most important "commercial" oranges. (This means that it is grown for sale in shops.) 

One type of sweet orange is called the "blood orange" or "sanguine orange" (sanguine means blood red). These oranges often have red marks on the skin, and some parts of the inside look as if they have blood in them. Some blood oranges make juice that is ruby red.

In the 1850s, in Brazil, there was a tree growing in a monastery garden that made very strange fruit. Inside each orange skin there was a large orange with no seeds. At the bottom of the orange was a baby orange, which was really the bigger orange's twin. The little orange made a strange bump at the bottom of the orange skin, that looked just like a human "belly-button". These oranges were named "Navel Oranges". They tasted very sweet, they had no seeds and they peeled quite easily. This made them a very good orange to grow "commercially". But they could not grow from seed. They could only grow from cuttings. Nowadays, thousands of these orange trees have been planted from cuttings. "Navel Oranges" are grown in California and exported to many countries of the world. Every navel orange in the world has the same genetic make up as the oranges on that tree in the monastery in Brazil. 

Mandarins, small flattened oranges with skins that come off easily, are believed to have come from China. Now there are several varieties. These include "tangerines" which are redder than most mandarins, and "clementines" which are large, smooth and plump. Mandarins of all sorts are very useful lunchbox fruit, because they are easy to peel and eat, but do not get squashed easily. 

Nowadays, many people of the world eat an orange or drink orange juice every day, because oranges are one of the best and cheapest sources of Vitamin C. Human bodies, unlike many other animals, do not manufacture Vitamin C, so a human needs vitamin C in their diet regularly. (Vitamin C helps the body to grow, to heal wounds and fight infection.) Oranges are also a very good source of dietary fibre. But they do not contain high amounts of minerals. If a person eats an orange and a banana together, then they have had a very nourishing snack that supplies both vitamins and minerals. 
<br clear=all>





</doc>
<doc id="45151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45151" title="Diplodocus">
Diplodocus

Diplodocus was a huge dinosaur from the same time as the "Allosaurus". It lived during the late Jurassic Period, about 145 to 155 million years ago. It was a vegetarian, meaning it ate no meat.

The Diplodocus was a long-necked, whip-tailed giant and could grow up to 27 m long. It had an 8 m long neck and 14 m long tail. Its weight was approximately 22,680 kg. It had a short 6 ft long head. Its size helped protect it from other dinosaurs. It used its long neck to poke into forests because it’s body was too big. It is also believed to have knocked the trees down.

Diplodocus skeletons are among the longest dinosaur skeletons ever found. Fossils were discovered in Western North America, particularly in the Rocky Mountains of the western USA. A complete tail has never been found.

Seismosaurus ("Seismosaurus hallorum") was thought to be its own species of dinosaur. In 2004 and 2006 it was decided to be a large species of Diplodocus . It is now known as "Diplodocus hallorum".


</doc>
<doc id="45153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45153" title="Wash">
Wash

Wash could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="45155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45155" title="Onion">
Onion

Onions are vegetables. They are plants in the genus "Allium". When people talk about onions, they usually mean "garden onions". Onions have bulbs, which are edible, in most species. They have a strong flavour, and a very distinctive smell. 

Onions have been grown for a very long time. They were probably first grown in Ancient Egypt, together with leek and garlic, but maybe earlier. Now, most of the world's cultures eat onions.

Farmers and gardeners can grow onions from seeds or from bulbs. If they plant seeds, they must later pull out most of the young plants so the rest can grow better. This is called 'thinning.'
Or, they can plant young bulbs. This is faster, but the onions that grow this way are weaker than the onions that started as seeds.

Onions can be eaten in different ways. Fried onions are often served with hot dogs. Pickled onions are eaten with chips or with salad. Raw onions are sliced (cut into flat layers) for hamburgers. Chopped onions are put in many stews and curries. Onions are sometimes roasted whole.

When you cut an onion, you open some cells. Then, some chemicals can react. When one chemical floats through the air and reaches your eyes, they sting.
There are ways to keep the chemical away. You can:


</doc>
<doc id="45166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45166" title="Universal House of Justice">
Universal House of Justice

The Universal House of Justice is the name of a council that leads the Bahá'í community. It was described by the person who made the Bahá'í Faith, Bahá'u'lláh, in his books and letters. He called it the Supreme House of Justice. His son, `Abdu'l-Bahá called it the Universal House of Justice, because it was going to lead all of the Bahá'ís. There will be other "Houses of Justice" for each country and city, but for now these are called "Spiritual Assemblies." 

Bahá'ís vote for the members of this council every five years during a special festival held between April 20 and May 2. 


</doc>
<doc id="45179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45179" title="Logitech">
Logitech

Logitech is a Swiss company that makes electronics. They are best known for making Peripheral equipment for computers; such as webcams, keyboards and computer mice.

The first mice were made in switzerland, but now Logitech makes its items all over the world. It was selling computer mice that made logitech into a big company. In 2008, Logitech made its billionth mouse.
As well as webcams, keyboards and computer mouses logitech also makes other products such as:

Logitech has also made two computer games: Jelly Jumper and Jelly Battle.



</doc>
<doc id="45181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45181" title="Bacteriophage">
Bacteriophage

A bacteriophage is a virus that infects bacteria. The term is commonly shortened to phage.

Bacteriophages are similar to viruses that infect eukaryotes (plants, animals, and fungi) in that there are many different kinds of structures and functions. Bacteriophages are typically made of an outer protein hull that has genetic material inside it. The genetic material can be ssRNA, dsRNA, ssDNA, or double-stranded DNA between 5 and 500 kilo base pairs long with either circular or linear arrangement. Bacteriophages are usually between 20 and 200 nanometers in size.


</doc>
<doc id="45182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45182" title="Deconstruction">
Deconstruction

Deconstruction is a way of understanding how something was created, usually things like art, books, poems and other writing. Deconstruction is breaking something down into smaller parts. Deconstruction looks at the smaller parts that were used to create an object. The smaller parts are usually ideas. 

Sometimes deconstruction looks at how an author can imply things he does not mean. It says that because words are not precise, we can never know what an author meant.

Sometimes deconstruction looks at the things the author did not say because he made assumptions. 

One thing it pays attention to is how opposites work. (It calls them "binary oppositions.") It says that two opposites like "good" and "bad" are not really different things. "Good" only makes sense when someone compares it to "bad," and "bad" only makes sense when someone compares it to "good." And so even when someone talks about "good," they are still talking about "bad." But this is just one thing it does.

Because of things like this, deconstruction argues that books and poems never just mean what we think they mean at first. Other meanings are always there too, and the book or poem works because all of those meanings work together. The closer we look at the writing, the more we find about how it works, and how meaning works for all things. If we deconstructed everything, we might never be able to talk or write at all. But that does not mean deconstruction is useless. If we deconstruct some things, we can learn more about them and about how talking and writing work.

Deconstruction works because words are slippery. Reading is like trying to hold a wet fish, because the meanings are all different. Jacques Derrida calls this "slippage along the chain of signifiers."

There is no way to explain what a deconstructionist is or does. However, some people who were very close to Derrida are usually called deconstructionists. These are people like Helene Cixous and Jean-Luc Nancy. If someone really deconstructed everything, he or she could not talk or think! Instead there are people who deconstruct things (books, poems, writing, words - in short, texts). Jacques Derrida began deconstructing things in the 1960s, but he was not the first. Martin Heidegger had talked about deconstruction in 1927 with Being and Time but he used the word "Destruktion." Heidegger might even say that he got the idea from Ancient Greek Philosophers like Plato and Aristotle. Other important people who talked about it include Paul de Man and Judith Butler.


</doc>
<doc id="45184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45184" title="Nihilism">
Nihilism

Nihilism is the belief that values are falsely invented. The term nihilism can also be used to describe the idea that life, or the world, has no distinct meaning or purpose. Nihilists believe that there are no true morals.

Most people think of Friedrich Nietzsche when they think about nihilism, because he said that morals were invented. Even people who know about Nietzsche call him a nihilist (someone who practices nihilism.) But in his books, Nietzsche said that people needed to create their own morals to get over nihilism. Other than him, not many famous philosophers are considered (thought to be) nihilists. However, it is still an important belief for philosophy.

Apart from Nietzsche, a popular text which draws heavily on nihilism is the novel Crime and Punishment by Fyodor Dostoevsky.


</doc>
<doc id="45189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45189" title="Licensed to Ill">
Licensed to Ill

"Licensed to Ill" is the first album of the Beastie Boys, released on November 1986.




</doc>
<doc id="45190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45190" title="Category:1986 albums">
Category:1986 albums

Albums released in 1986.


</doc>
<doc id="45195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45195" title="Coronary heart disease">
Coronary heart disease

Coronary heart disease, also called coronary artery disease, is a progressive reduction of blood to the heart muscle because of the narrowing of the coronary artery. It is caused by a build-up of atheromatous plaques inside the arteries that deliver blood to the myocardium (the muscular tissue of the heart). Most people with coronary heart disease can look well for years before they start experiencing symptoms, often a heart attack. If it goes untreated, some of the atheromatous plaques might break away and block the blood flow to the heart. Coronary heart disease is the most common cause of sudden death, and it is also the most common cause of death in people over 65 years old. Men are 10 times more likely to suffer from coronary heart disease than women.Yet it kills a lot of people.

Impairment of heart function due to the blood flow to the heart compared to its needs, caused by obstruction changes in coronary circulation of the heart. 

Atherosclerosis is a form of cardiovascular disease. It is where fatty materials (such as cholesterol) build up in the arteries constricting blood flow due to a blood clot. The artery walls also constrict due to the presence of foam cell. These are created when Low-Density Lipoproteins diffuse through the artery walls and become oxidised by free radicals. White blood cells then try to ingest the oxidised cholesterol which creates the foam cells.

If a complete blockage of an artery occurs then this prevents cells from receiving oxygen and nutrients and the cells will die. This is bad in any case but especially if it happens in the coronary arteries. This will result in a section of the heart dying and a myocardial infraction (heart attack) may occur. 

Atherosclerosis


</doc>
<doc id="45197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45197" title="Template:TOCright">
Template:TOCright


</doc>
<doc id="45200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45200" title="Fructose">
Fructose

Fructose is a simple sugar (monosaccharide) found in many foods. It is also one of the three most important blood sugars, the other two being glucose and galactose. Honey; tree fruits; berries; melons; and some root vegetables, such as beets, sweet potatoes, parsnips and onions, contain fructose, usually with sucrose and glucose.



</doc>
<doc id="45202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45202" title="Peer pressure">
Peer pressure

Peer pressure is a force that happens within a group of people. It often happens to children during puberty. The group defines some social values. For somebody to stay "cool" in that group, they feel as if they have to act like other people in that group. Social pressure (and wanting to be accepted or in favor inside the group) leads people to do things they would not do otherwise. For example, it can make a person to smoke cigarettes or marijuana, to drink alcohol, commit crimes, and/or many other things.


</doc>
<doc id="45203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45203" title="Cuticle">
Cuticle

In biology, a cuticle is something that covers the outside of living things called organisms. Cuticles are usually tough but also bendable. In plants, cuticles in the leaves help it from losing to much water by evaporation.


</doc>
<doc id="45208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45208" title="Leek">
Leek

Leek is a vegetable. It belongs to the same genus as the onion and garlic. It can be used for cooking.


</doc>
<doc id="45209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45209" title="Great power">
Great power

A great power is a nation or state that is able to influence other states in most of the world. That is possible because it has great economic, political and military strength. Its opinions are taken into account by other nations before taking diplomatic or military action. Characteristically, they have the ability to intervene militarily almost anywhere, and they also have soft, cultural power, often in the form of economic investment in less developed portions of the world.

The Great powers today are thought to be:



</doc>
<doc id="45213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45213" title="Bite">
Bite

A bite is a wound received from the teeth of an animal. Animals may bite things in self-defence. Animals also bite things to cut them into smaller pieces before they eat them.

Bites can cause many medical problems, such as:

Bite wounds should be washed, ideally with povidone-iodine soap and water. The injury should then be loosely wrapped with a bandage. Open bite wounds are not sutured because of the risk of infection.

Animal bites caused by carnivores (other than rodents) may infect the victim with rabies if the animal that bit them carries it. If possible, the animal is caught and the head is looked at for signs of rabies. Signs of rabies include foaming at the mouth, self-mutilation, growling, jerky behaviour, and red eyes. If the animal lives for ten days and does not develop rabies, then the animal probably is not infected. In cases where the animal cannot be found, prophylactic rabies treatment is carried out in most places.

Many of the world's snakes are not considered dangerous to humans, but even a bite from a "safe" snake may injure the victim if the wound is not treated properly, and large snakes such as constrictors are capable of causing a lot of damage with their bites.

The black widow spider and some scorpions are considered dangerous to humans, mostly to small children and elderly adults. Only the Sydney funnel-web spider of Australia is frequently dangerous to adults, and it lives only within 100 miles of Sydney. Antivenins are available in the United States for black widow spiders and the dangerous scorpions native to the region.


</doc>
<doc id="45217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45217" title="Northern Europe">
Northern Europe

Northern Europe is the northern part of the European continent. Most people see the following states as part of it:

Before the 19th century, the term 'Nordic' or 'Northern' was commonly used to mean Northern Europe in a sense that included the Nordic countries, European Russia, the Baltic countries (at that time Livonia and Courland) and Greenland.

In earlier eras, when Europe was dominated by the Mediterranean region (i.e. the Roman Empire), everything not near this sea was termed Northern Europe, including Germany, the Low Countries, and Austria. In medieval times, the term (Ultima) Thule was used to mean a semi-mythical place in the extreme northern reaches of the continent.

In a European Union context, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands are often seen as belonging to a Northern group.


</doc>
<doc id="45219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45219" title="Western Europe">
Western Europe

Western Europe in the first place is a geographic region of Europe and includes the following nine countries (as defined by the United Nations):

During the Cold War "Western Europe" was mainly a socio-political concept and meant the European countries of the First World. It was distinguished from Eastern Europe by differences of economics, politics, and religion rather than by clear geography. 

Today, the term "Western Europe" has less to do with geography and more to do with economics. The concept is also commonly associated with liberal democracy, capitalism and also with the European Union. Most of the countries in the region share 
Western culture, and many have economic, and political ties with countries in North and South America and Oceania. In addition, Scandinavia (in Northern Europe) is commonly associated with social democracy and remains fairly neutral throughout international disputes.


</doc>
<doc id="45221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45221" title="Template:Subst notice">
Template:Subst notice


</doc>
<doc id="45223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45223" title="Template:Uw-test3">
Template:Uw-test3


</doc>
<doc id="45228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45228" title="Furnace">
Furnace

A Furnace is a device used for heating. The word has two different meanings, though:


</doc>
<doc id="45230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45230" title="Southern Europe">
Southern Europe

Southern Europe is a region of the European continent. Most people see Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece and over all the Mediterranean countries of the European continent as parts of Southern Europe. Very often the South of France is also included. 
Geographically, Southern Europe would be the south half of the landmass of Europe. This definition is relative, with no clear limits.
The Alps mountains are a physical barrier between Italy and the rest of Europe.

For its official works and publications, the United Nations Organization has its own special definition of regions. As it counts always the whole state Corsica as part of France is not part of Southern European but Italian Tyrol belongs to it as it is part of Italy..

The climatic definition of southern Europe would be similar to the areas of Mediterranean climate. The Mediterranean climate is often thought to be a typical characteristic of Southern Europe. 

Countries of Latin Europe are often associated with the concept of Southern Europe, especially Southwest Europe. 
Greece and the Balkan nations are often associated with them in the concept of Southern Europe, especially Southeast Europe.

Although there is no precise definition, the following territories are commonly thought to be parts of Southern Europe:



</doc>
<doc id="45231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45231" title="Corsica">
Corsica

Corsica is the fourth largest island in the Mediterranean Sea (after Sicily, Sardinia, and Cyprus). It is located west of Italy, southeast of France, and north of the island of Sardinia. Corsica is one of the 26 esteemed "régions" of France and always has been. Some people want Corsica to be a part of Italy. Corsica has more power to do what it wants instead of listening to France, but loves France so much that it decides not to, much like the other "régions". Corsica is referred to as a "région". 

Corsica is famous in the world for the beautiful places for tourism and as the birthplace of Napoléon Bonaparte.

Corsica has 1,000 km of coastline and more than 200 beaches, and is very mountainous, with Monte Cinto as the highest peak at 2706m and 20 other peaks of more than 2000m.

Big towns: ("Corsican names")

Other towns and villages:

Corsica is the most mountainous Mediterranean island. The island has a Mediterranean climate, with hot, dry summers and mild, rainy winters. The natural vegetation is Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and shrubs. The mountains are cooler and are rich of forests of oak, and pine. Much of the coastal lowlands has been cleared for agriculture,which has reduced the mountain forests considerably. The island has a natural park (Parc Naturel Régional de Corse), which protects thousands of rare animal and plant species. The park was created in 1972 and includes the Golfe de Porto, the Réserve Naturelle de Scandola (a UNESCO World Heritage Site), and some of the highest mountains on the island. This park is protected.


The capital of the territorial collectivity of Corsica is Ajaccio (Corsican: "Aiacciu"). The territorial collectivity is divided in two "départements": Corse-du-Sud and Haute-Corse. These two "départements" were created on September 15, 1975 by the "département" of Corse.

Tourism is the biggest source of Corsican economy. The island has a pleasant climate, beautiful mountains and really beautiful coastlines that make it a popular destination among the French and other Western Europeans. However, the island has not had the same level of intensive development as other parts of the Mediterranean. Tourism is particularly concentrated in the area around Porto Vecchio and Bonifacio in the south of the island and Calvi in the northwest.

Corsica is currently governed almost as any other "région" of France. There are lots of movements on the island the independence of Corsica and of Corsicans from France. The French government is against full independence. There is support on the island for to have more autonomy, but polls show that a large majority of Corsicans are opposed to full independence. Some groups who claim to support Corsican independence have carried out a violent campaign since the 1970s that includes bombings and a few accidental assassinations, usually against "pieds-noirs" and other non-Corsicans, or buildings of the French government. Corsican independence groups attack when they are sure there wont be a danger for victims. However not all groups for independence has "nice treaties", Sometimes independence groups are known to practice extortion and other intimidatory tactics, similar to mafia activity in Sicily and southern Italy. Non-Corsican homeowners may be threatened with the destruction of their home, or they are constrict to pay a "revolutionarian tax",for to help the groups in the attacks.

In 2000, Prime Minister Lionel Jospin agreed to give more autonomy to Corsica but just for stopping the violence. The propose of autonomy for Corsica would have included greater protection for the Corsican language (Corsu), the island's traditional language (which is also considered to be a dialect of Italian). However, the plans for increased autonomy were opposed by the Gaullist opposition in the French National Assembly. In a referendum on July 6,2003, a narrow majority of Corsican voters opposed to the project from the government of Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy that would have suppressed the two "départements" of the island and granted more autonomy to the territorial collectivity of Corsica.

In Corsica the official language is French, but lots of people speak, "u corsu", a dialect of Corsica, protected by UNESCO. Corsu is not so different to the Tuscan dialects (with their accents) or to Gallurese language, spoken in the near-by island of Sardinia. Corsu has two varietes, "Supranacciu", common in the north east of island, (Bastia, Corte), and the "Suttanacciu" common in the south of the island, (Ajaccio,Sartene). The native Corsican language is closer to Italian than French, but both come from Latin. The ancient Romans spoke Latin.

In Corsica, football is a very common sport. The island has in the first league of France ('Ligue 1'), 2 teams. The AC Ajaccio and the SC Bastia. Another very famous sport in Corsica, is volleyball, with the "GFCO Ajaccio Volley-Ball' team.



</doc>
<doc id="45232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45232" title="Maser">
Maser

A maser is a device that produces light and heat by using atoms to release energy. A maser takes the small vibrations in atoms and amplifies them to release light and heat. Originally, they were referred to by the acronym MASER or 'Microwave Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation. Unlike most radio transmitters, maser waves tend to have very similar wavelengths. Their usage was first predicted by Albert Einstein but they were not used until the 1960s.


</doc>
<doc id="45234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45234" title="World Wide Web Consortium">
World Wide Web Consortium

The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is an organization created by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, in order to continue the development of the web, and its languages. Tim Berners-Lee also wants to make standards for the languages, and to improve them. As of 2 April 2010, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) has 328 Members.


</doc>
<doc id="45240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45240" title="List of Pterosaurs">
List of Pterosaurs

This is a list of pterosaurs.


























</doc>
<doc id="45241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45241" title="Deinonychus">
Deinonychus

Deinonychus was a medium-sized theropod dinosaur of the Dromeosaur family. It was a larger relative of the famous "Velociraptor".

This 3.4 meter (11 ft) long dinosaur lived during the Lower Cretaceous, about 115-108 million years ago. Fossils have been recovered from the U.S. states of Montana, Wyoming, and Oklahoma.

"Deinonychus" has been described as the single most important discovery of dinosaur paleontology in the mid 20th century.

Paleontologist John Ostrom's study of "Deinonychus" in the late 1960s started the debate on whether dinosaurs were warm-blooded. It is now accepted that all or most smaller theropods had feathers whose function was temperature regulation. 

Ostrom noted the small body, sleek, horizontal, posture, and—especially—the enlarged claws on the feet, which suggested an active, agile predator. Before this, the popular idea of dinosaurs had been one of plodding, reptilian giants.

'Deinonychus' means 'Terrible claw'. This refers to the large, sickle-shaped claw bone on the second toe of each hind foot. In life, archosaurs have a horny sheath over this bone which extends the length. Ostrom reconstructed the claw as over long. 

The species name "antirrhopus" means “counter balance”, which refers to Ostrom's idea about the function of the tail. As in other dromaeosaurids, the tail vertebrae have a series of ossified (bony) tendons and super-long bone processes. These features seemed to make the tail into a stiff counterbalance.

A fossil of the very closely related "Velociraptor mongoliensis" has an articulated tail skeleton that is curved laterally in a long S–shape. This suggests that, in life, the tail could swish to the sides with some flexibility.

"Deinonychus" remains have been found closely associated with those of the ornithopod "Tenontosaurus". Teeth discovered associated with "Tenontosaurus" specimens imply it was hunted or at least scavenged upon by "Deinonychus".


</doc>
<doc id="45247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45247" title="Cheerleader">
Cheerleader

A Cheerleader is a person who does cheerleading, or leads cheers for sporting events or during competition. This is usually done as a group. It is done to keep the spirit of a sports team up. 

This sport is originally from the United States. It was first seen in the beginning of the 1900s. It was, and is still used to support a local sports group (for example football). 

Because of the athletic ability often needed in cheerleading, many people think cheerleading is a sport. Cheerleaders perform routines that include dancing, tumbling, cheering, stunting and jumping. Cheerleading teams can compete in competitions against other cheer teams as well as perform for different sporting events.



</doc>
<doc id="45249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45249" title="My Opera Community">
My Opera Community

The My Opera Community is a virtual community, which provides help and social networking services for people who use the Opera browser.

The My Opera Community started in August 2001. It currently has over 1,000,000 members, who are from all over the world.



</doc>
<doc id="45251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45251" title="Permanent">
Permanent

Permanent used as an adjective usually means that something is very hard to get rid of or destroy. Permanent may also mean other things.



</doc>
<doc id="45252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45252" title="Linen">
Linen

Linen is a material made from the fibers of the flax plant ("Linum usitatissimum"). It is usually used to make cloth.

It is often used in the creation of light clothing and table coverings. 

The flax plant is one of the plants humans have grown and used. Linen cloth was already made at least 6,000 years ago in Egypt and Mesopotamia. This makes linen one of the oldest fibers and cloths used by humans, besides wool and hemp. Linen and hemp were the most important fiber plants in Europe for a long time. Linen was for example also used to wrap Egyptian mummies.


</doc>
<doc id="45254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45254" title="Hieroglyph">
Hieroglyph

Hieroglyphs (or Hieroglyphics) are a type of writing which use symbols or pictures to stand for sounds and words. The Egyptians, Luwians and Mayan cultures used hieroglyphs. They have also been found in Turkey, Crete, United States and Canada. They are thought to have started when pictures were used to tell stories on pots and other artwork. Over time they became letters. The word "hieroglyph" comes from the Greek words ἱερός (hierós 'sacred') and γλύφειν (glúphein 'to carve' or 'to write'), and was first used to mean the Egyptian hieroglyphs. The Greeks who came to Egypt saw the picture letters which were often found carved on house walls, tombs, and monuments. 

Ancient Egyptians used pictures to make a phonetic alphabet, so that each sound could be written with a picture-word, a "phonogram" or "pictograph". For example, a zig-zag for water n came to mean the letter "n", because the Egyptian word for water started with n. This same picture became our letter 'M' in the Latin alphabet, because the Semitic word for water started with m, and Semitic workers changed the symbols to fit sounds in their own language. In the same way, our Latin letter 'N' came from the hieroglyph for snake D as the word for "snake" started with n in Semitic. In Egyptian, this picture had stood for a sound like English "J" because of their word for snake. Some pictures came to represent ideas, and these are known as "ideograms".

The Egyptians used between 700 and 800 pictures, or glyphs. They were written from right to left, and from top to bottom. They did not use punctuation.

Archaeologists believe that the Egyptians began using hieroglyphs about 3300 or 3200 BC. They were in use for more than 3,500 years. Most Egyptians did not write in hieroglyphs, it was only the nobles, priests and government official who used them. They were hard to learn and took a long time to write. People stopped using hieroglyphs when Christianity took hold in Egypt. Writing in hieroglyphs grew more rare with the last known inscription made in 396 BCE.

After the end of the Egyptian civilization in 30 BC, people no longer knew how to read the hieroglyphs. When the French took over Eypyt in 1798, French soldiers found a large stone. This is now called the Rosetta Stone. The Rosetta Stone had writing in three different languages. One language was hieroglyphs, one was Ancient Greek, and the third was demotic, a simplified form of hieroglyphs. Jean François Champollion guessed that the writing on the stone was the same, but in three languages. By using the Ancient Greek, he was able to work out the name of the ruler, Ptolemy V, in hieroglyphs. After many years study he was able to work out how to read the other words. 


</doc>
<doc id="45255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45255" title="Papyrus">
Papyrus

Papyrus is a kind of paper that the Ancient Egypt & Modern Nubians used for writing. It was made from a kind of reed called cyperus papyrus.

Papyrus plants grow 2-3m (5–9 ft) tall. They were first used in Ancient Egypt, but they were also used throughout the Mediterranean region. The Egyptians also used the papyrus plants to make boats, mattresses, mats, rope, sandals, and baskets.


</doc>
<doc id="45256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45256" title="Sodium hypochlorite">
Sodium hypochlorite

Sodium hypochlorite is an unstable compound composed of sodium and hypochlorite ions. It is stable in solution, though. It is light green and has the chemical formula NaClO (or NaOCl). It is a strong oxidizing agent. It is used to disinfect (kill bacteria) and as a bleach to remove stains from clothing. It is not good for cotton because the sodium hydroxide normally contained eats away the clothing fibers. It reacts with acids to produce chlorine.



</doc>
<doc id="45259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45259" title="Raisin">
Raisin

Raisins are dried grapes. They contain a lot of sugar.



</doc>
<doc id="45260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45260" title="Taste bud">
Taste bud

Taste buds are small 'bumps' on the tongue. They are the sense organs which detect the taste of things that go into the mouth. They are involved in detecting the five (known) elements of taste perception: salty, sour, bitter, sweet, and umami. 



</doc>
<doc id="45261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45261" title="Calf">
Calf

A calf can be:



</doc>
<doc id="45262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45262" title="Nectar">
Nectar

Nectar, in botany, is a liquid made by the flowers of plants. It is very sweet because it has a lot of sugar in it. Plants make nectar to attract pollinating animals. It is made in glands called nectaries. The Nectaries are usually at the bottom of the perianth. This means the animal trying to get the nectar have to touch the parts of the plant that are used for reproduction. By doing this, the animal getting the nectar helps the plants reproduce. Some plants make nectar outside the flower. These plants do it to attract predatory insects. These insects will eat both the nectar and any plant-eating insects found near the plant.

Nectar is economically important because it is where the sugar for honey comes from. It is also useful in agriculture and horticulture because the adults of many predatory insects, as well as hummingbirds, eat nectar. Nectar from fruits can also be drank by people.


</doc>
<doc id="45264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45264" title="Hunting dog">
Hunting dog

A hunting dog is any dog who helps humans in hunting. There are several types of hunting dogs. The major categories of hunting dog include hounds, terriers, curs type dogs, and gun dogs. These categories have smaller groups in them that are based on different things the dogs are good at doing.






</doc>
<doc id="45265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45265" title="Purebred dog">
Purebred dog

Purebred dogs are dogs whose ancestors are all the same breed.

A breed of dog is a particular subspecies that has been bred through time to exhibit certain characteristics, for example a bulldog is bred to be short and have a flat nose while a greyhound is bred to be light and run fast.
Some dogs are bred to look special which is why poodles have fluffy hair.


</doc>
<doc id="45266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45266" title="MTR">
MTR

Mass Transit Railway or MTR (in Chinese, 香港鐵路有限公司, literally "Hong Kong Railway Company"; or 港鐵 for short) is the main rapid transit railway system in Hong Kong. Since the MTR service first opened in 1979, the network has grown to 150 stations. . Built and run by MTR Corporation Limited, the MTR system is a very popular mode of public transport in Hong Kong, with around 2.46 million passengers riding each day.

The price of using MTR is very low. For example, the price of going from Tsing Yi to Causeway Bay by taxi is around HK$200. Travelling the same distance by MTR costs HK$11.80 for grown up people and HK$5.40 for young and very old people. People can buy a one way ticket or a Octopus card to enter MTR. Octopus card is a contact-less smart card.

Hong Kong's growing economy caused a lot of traffic problems. Hong Kong government made a study of these problems. The first line was opened in 1979. The MTR was popular quickly with the people of Hong Kong, so later they built more lines to cover more ground. People are still arguing about how and where to expand the MTR network next.

During the 1960s, the government of Hong Kong thought they need to accommodate increasing road traffic that growing Hong Kong's economy would bring. British transport consultants Freeman, Fox, Wilbur Smith & Associates were appointed to study the transport system of Hong Kong. The consultants released the "Hong Kong Mass Transport Study" in September 1967, which proposed the construction of a mass transport underground railway system in Hong Kong.

In 1970, an underground network with four lines was laid out and planned as part of the British consultants' new report, "Hong Kong Mass Transit: Further Studies". The four lines were to be the Kwun Tong Line, Tsuen Wan Line, Island Line, and East Kowloon Line. However, the lines that were eventually constructed were somewhat different compared with the lines that were originally proposed by the "Hong Kong Mass Transport Study".

In 1972, the Hong Kong government authorised construction of the "Initial System", a 20-km system that roughly translates to the Kwun Tong Line today (except the line now extends to Tiu Keng Leng). Negotiations with four major construction consortia started in 1973. The government's intention was to tender the entire project, based on the British design, as a single tender at a fixed price. A consortium from Japan signed an agreement to construct the system in early 1974, but in December of the same year it pulled out from the agreement, stemming from fears of the Arab oil crisis.

Several weeks later, in early 1975, a government agency known as the Mass Transport Provisional Authority was established to take charge of the project. It announced that the Initial System would be slightly reduced to 15.6 kilometres, and renamed it the Modified Initial System. Plans for a single contract were also abandoned in favour of 25 engineering contracts and 10 electrical and mechanical contracts.

In addition, the government-owned Hong Kong Mass Transit Railway Corporation (MTRC) was established to replace the Mass Transport Provisional Authority. (This was the company succeeded by the MTR Corporation Limited on 30 June 2000)

Construction of the Modified Initial System (now part of Kwun Tong Line and Tsuen Wan Line) commenced in November 1975. After almost four years, the northern section was completed on 30 September 1979. On 1 October 1979, the northern section was opened, with trains running from Shek Kip Mei to Kwun Tong. The route from Tsim Sha Tsui to Shek Kip Mei was opened in December of the same year.

In 1980, the first harbour crossing was made by an MTR train as the Kwun Tong Line was extended even farther to Chater station, now known as Central station. To deal with increasing patronage, trains were also extended to six cars.

The government approved construction of the in 1977, then known as Tsuen Wan Extension, and works commenced in November 1978. The project added a 10.5-kilometre section to the MTR system, from Prince Edward to Tsuen Wan. The line started service on 10 May 1982 with a total cost of construction (not adjusted for inflation) at HK$4.1 billion.

When service of this line started, the section of the Kwun Tong Line from Chater to Argyle, present-day Mong Kok station, was transferred to the Tsuen Wan Line. Thus, Waterloo became the terminus of the Kwun Tong Line, and both Argyle and Prince Edward stations became interchange stations. This change was made because system planners expected traffic of the Tsuen Wan Line would exceed that of the Kwun Tong Line. This forecast proved quite accurate, necessitating a bypass from the northwestern New Territories to Hong Kong Island. Launched in 1998, the Tung Chung Line serves exactly that purpose.

Although land acquisitions were made for a station at Tsuen Wan West, the station was never built. This is not to be confused with Tsuen Wan West Station on KCR West Rail, which lies on the newly reclaimed area near the former ferry pier.

It is interesting to note that since the line's opening in 1982, this is the only line whose alignment has virtually remained the same for the past 23 years. For example, the Kwun Tong Line's alignment has changed for 2 times since its opening - the taking over of Tsuen Wan Line from Mong Kok to Central, and the taking over of Eastern Harbour Crossing section by the Tseung Kwan O Line.

Government approvals were granted for construction of the in December, 1980. Construction commenced in October, 1981. On 31 May 1985 the Island Line was opened with service between Admiralty and Chai Wan stations. Both Admiralty and Central stations became interchange stations with the Tsuen Wan Line. Furthermore, each train was extended to eight cars.

On 23 May 1986, service reached Sheung Wan station. Construction for this station was delayed for one year as government offices which sat on top of the station had to be removed to a new location before construction could start.

In 1984, the government approved the construction of the Eastern Harbour Crossing, a tunnel to be used by cars and MTR trains. The Kwun Tong Line was extended across the harbour to Quarry Bay, which became an interchange station for the Kwun Tong Line and the Island Line. The extension was launched on 5 August 1989. An intermediate station, Lam Tin, started operations on 1 October 1989.

The decision was made in October 1989 to construct a new international airport at Chek Lap Kok on Lantau Island to replace the overcrowded Kai Tak International Airport. The government invited the MTR to build a train line, then known as the Lantau Airport Railway, to the airport. But construction did not begin until the Chinese and British governments settled their financial and land disagreements in November 1994.

In the end, the new line was included in the financing plans of the new Hong Kong International Airport as the airport was not considered viable without direct public transport links. Construction costs were also shared by the MTR which was granted many large-scale developments in the construction plans for the new stations.

The Lantau Airport Railway turned into two MTR lines, the Tung Chung Line and the Airport Express. The was officially opened on 21 June 1998 by Hong Kong Chief Executive Tung Chee Hwa, and service commenced the next day. The opened for service on 6 July 1998 along with the new Hong Kong International Airport.

The Airport Express line is the second most popular means of transport to the Hong Kong International Airport. In 2005, 22% of the commuters took the Airport Express to and from the airport. 

The Quarry Bay Congestion Relief Works involved extending the Hong Kong Island end of the Kwun Tong Line from Quarry Bay to North Point via a 4.2 kilometre tunnel. The project was initiated due to overcrowding at Quarry Bay and persistent passenger complaints about the 5-minute walk from the Island Line station to the Kwun Tong Line station. Construction began in September 1997 and was completed in September 2001 at a cost of HK$3.0 billion.

Construction of the was approved on 18 August 1998 to serve new housing developments. Construction began on 24 April 1999 and the line officially opened in 2002. It took over the train tracks running through the Eastern Harbour Tunnel from the Kwun Tong Line, and ran from Po Lam to North Point. When the line was opened, the Kwun Tong Line was diverted to Tiu Keng Leng on the new line. The Government paid part of the cost for this construction, and the money came also from private developers which linked construction of the Tseung Kwan O Line to new real estate and commercial developments. Previously under-developed areas were opened up for development with more transport options.

While the construction of the Tung Chung Line was still underway, the plan for building a railway corridor to serve the northwestern New Territories was conceived. Space has been reserved for the addition of an interchange station and two extra tracks (to allow non-stop service for the Airport Express) between Olympic and Lai King. Originally known as the Airport Railway Phase 2, the contracts of the West Rail Interface Works were awarded shortly after construction works of the West Rail commenced. The project comprised Mei Foo Interchange (modification of the existing Mei Foo station on the Tsuen Wan Line to provide a pedestrian link to the West Rail Mei Foo station; Nam Cheong Station (an interchange station on the Tung Chung Line, jointly operated by the MTRC and KCRC) and 4-Tracking Works (the additional two tracks, 4 km in length, allow the Tung Chung Line trains to stop at Nam Cheong without obstructing the passage of Airport Express trains).

The Works were completed in stages. The Tung Chung Line trains have been running on the new track since mid May 2003, whereas the Mei Foo station interchange subway and the Nam Cheong station were opened at the same time the West Rail opened for public use in December 2003.

Two major works have been undertaken to improve interchange between MTR and KCR East Rail. The modification of Kowloon Tong station started in June 2001. A new pedestrian link to East Rail Kowloon Tong station southern concourse and a new entrance were completed in June 2003 to cope with the increase in interchange passenger flow.

Modification to MTR Tsim Sha Tsui Station involved in upgrading station factilities and concourse layout to facilitate access from the pedestrian links of East Rail East Tsim Sha Tsui station. New entrances to the subway links were opened on 19 September 2004 (for KCR Mody Road subway) and 30 March 2005 (for Nathan Road subway, which connects to KCR Middle Road subway), with the whole scheme completed in May 2005.

, previously known as Penny's Bay Rail Link, provides service to the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort which was opened on 12 September 2005. Service to Sunny Bay station on the Tung Chung Line started on 1 June 2005. The new line and Disneyland Resort station opened for service on 1 August 2005.

This 3.5 km single-track railway is an extension of the Tung Chung Line. It runs between Sunny Bay station to Disneyland Resort station, which is designed to blend in with the Hong Kong Disneyland to create a resort ambience. The line currently operates two four-car fully-automated trains (each car accommodating up to 180 passengers) running every four to ten minutes. These carriages were converted from the existing rolling stock to suit the recreational and adventurous nature of the 3.5 minute journey.

The new Asia World-Expo station is an extension of the Airport Express to serve the new international exhibition centre, known as the AsiaWorld-Expo at Hong Kong International Airport. The station opened on 20 December 2005 to meet the opening of the exhibition centre. To cope with the projected increase in patronage, Airport Express trains has expanded from 7 cars to 8 cars. Additional trains will also be deployed on the Tung Chung line during major exhibitions and events.

On 5 October 2000 the operator of the MTR network, MTR Corporation Limited, became Hong Kong's first privatised rail and metro company, which marked the start of the Hong Kong government's planned initiative to wind down its interests in various public utilities. Prior to its listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Mass Transit Railway Coporation was wholly owned by the Hong Kong Government. The offering involved the sale of around one billion shares, and the company now has the largest shareholder base of any company listed in Hong Kong. In June, 2001, MTR Corporation Limited was transferred to Hang Seng Index.

MTR Corporation Limited has always been reliant on developing properties next to railway stations for its profits (although the rail lines are profitable themselves); many recently built stations are incorporated into large housing estates or shopping complexes. Examples of this type of construction can be seen at Tsing Yi station, which is built next to the Maritime Square shopping centre, and directly underneath the Tierra Verde housing estate.

On April 11, 2006, MTR Corporation Limited signed a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding with the Hong Kong Government, the owner of Kowloon-Canton Railway Corporation (KCRC), to merge the operation of the two railway networks of Hong Kong. If eventually approved, MTR Corporation Limited will take over the operation of the KCR network and combine the fare system of the two networks.

Various campaigns and activities are taken to help ensure that the MTR is a safe system to travel on. Poster campaigns displaying information on topics such as escalator safety are a common sight in all MTR stations, and announcements are made regularly as safety reminders to travelling passengers. 

Bylaws have been recently introduced to deter potentially dangerous actions on the MTR, such as the ban of flammable goods on the MTR and rushing into trains when the doors are closing. Penalties ranging from fines to imprisonment have been imposed for such offenses. Metallic balloons are also banned due to previous incidents on KCR and on MTR's Island Line where a metallic balloon interfered with the operation of the overhead power lines.

Police officers patrol on trains and stations, and police posts are available at some stations. The Hong Kong Police Force has a Railway District responsible for the MTR and the KCR. Closed-circuit television cameras are installed in stations.

Tung Chung Line, the Airport Express and Tseung Kwan O Line, except Quarry Bay station, had platform screen doors (PSDs) installed upon construction. These doors prevent people from falling onto the rails, and MTRC allowed the assumption that this implementation was primarily a safety campaign, without heavily promoting it directly. In fact, the primary motivation was to separate the stations from the tunnels, hence allowing substantial energy savings on station air-conditioning and tunnel ventilation. Automatic platform gates (APGs) have also been installed at the Sunny Bay and Disneyland Resort stations. Their heights are half of the PSDs and only prevent people from falling onto the rails.

In June 2000, The MTR Corporation proceeded with its plans to retrofit 2,960 pairs of platform screen doors at all 30 underground stations on the Kwun Tong Line, Tsuen Wan Line, and Island Line in a six year programme. The programme made MTR the world's first railway to undertake the retrofitting of PSDs on a passenger-carrying system already in operation. A prototype design was first introduced at Choi Hung station in the 3rd quarter of 2001. HK$0.10 per passenger trip was levied on Octopus card users to help fund the HK$2 billion retrofit programme. The whole installation scheme was completed in October 2005. The original completion year was 2006. The MTR Corporation said that part of the cost had to be assumed by passengers.

With the high level of daily passenger traffic, facilities of MTR stations are built with durability and accessibility in mind. The elevators and escalators in stations are heavy duty, with the elevators installed by Otis Elevator Company/Fujitec and the escalators installed by Constructions Industrielles de la Mediterranée and Otis Elevator Company.

After extensive retrofits, the MTR system has become, in general, disabled-friendly — the trains have dedicated wheelchair space, the stations have special floor tiles to guide the blind safely on the platforms, and there are extra wide entry and exit gates for wheelchairs as well.

Unlike many other metro systems around the world, "main line" MTR stations do not have toilet facilities, although their installation has been contemplated. Only stations on the Airport Express and Disneyland Resort Line have access to toilet facilities.

The MTR network is unique in its arrangement of interchange stations. Interchange stations between the Island, Tsuen Wan, Kwun Tong and Tseung Kwan O lines are arranged in pairs; such an arrangement allows cross-platform interchange wherein a passenger leaves a train on one side of the platform and boards trains on the other side of the platform for another line. 

Most of those stations make use of a cross-platform interchange system, where the commuter can change to another line on the opposite platform. For example, when a person is travelling on the Kwun Tong Line towards Tiu Keng Leng, getting off at Yau Tong would allow him to change trains across the platform for the Tseung Kwan O Line towards North Point. Whereas, staying on the train and reaching Tiu Keng Leng would allow you to change trains for the Tseung Kwan O Line towards Po Lam.

This not only makes it more convenient for passengers, it also reduces the amount of traffic per station. Riders are made aware of the closest connection point by way of in-train visual and auditory messages. Although riders can disregard these tips, the design of the stations are for the convenience of passengers.

A full GSM (GSM-900 and GSM-1800), CDMA and TDMA mobile phone network is in place through out the MTR system of stations and tunnels. Passengers can stay connected underground.

Currently, full 3G network coverage in all stations and tunnels (except West Rail Line) for the MTR system has been provided by 3 Hong Kong, SmarTone-Vodafone and PCCW Mobile. Passengers with subscription services will be able to make video calls and access high speed video content on their mobile phones regardless whether the train is above ground or under ground.

Until recently, MTR stations only had branches of the Hang Seng Bank and Maxim's Cakes stores, owned by Jardine Matheson, and a handful of other shops. Since the privatisation of the MTR, however, numerous shops have been added to certain stations, turning them into miniature shopping centres. Services available at most stations include:


Apart from retailers, there are also dentists and medical clinics, drycleaners, and florists along the Tseung Kwan O Line. Standard services include payphones, vending machines (Coca-Cola only), and self-service photo-booths.

"Recruit" was the first free magazine which was solely distributed in MTR stations since July 1992. However, in July 2002, the contract between the magazine and MTR was terminated. Another recruitment magazine "Jiu Jik" (招職), published by "South China Morning Post", replaced "Recruit" as the only free recruitment magazine distributed in MTR stations on every Tuesdays and Fridays.

At the same time, there was another entertainment magazine "Hui Kai Guide" (去街 Guide). However, it is no longer distributed in MTR stations since 2006.

The "Metropolis Daily" (都市日報), published by Metro International, is the first free newspaper distributed free in MTR stations from Monday to Friday (except public holidays); and in 2005, there is another weekend newspaper "Express Post" (快線周報), distributed every Saturday except public holidays.

The "Metropop" (都市流行), also published by Metro International, started its distribution in MTR stations every Thursdays since April 27 2006, few months after the termination of "Hui Kai Guide". It is a weekly magazine featuring cultural affairs and city trends.

The Airport Express also offer value-added services to travellers on the line. Toilets and check-in facilities are available at every station on the line. A free Airport Express shuttle bus service transports travellers from stations to their respective hotels as well. Flight passengers can even have in-town check-in at the station, which offers a more convenient and time-saving routine.

As of January 2005, there are two different fare classes on the MTR: Adult and concessionary. Only children below the age of 12, senior citizens 65 years or older, or full-time Hong Kong students between the ages of 12 and 25 qualify for the concessionary rate. Children below the age of 3 travel free.

Similar to some other metro systems in the world, the fare payable by a passenger depends on the approximate distance travelled. However, taking any particular station as the origin, the other stations fall into fare "zones" depending on the distance from the origin. The fare to all stations in a "zone" is the same and increases with distance, especially if the journey involves a harbour crossing. Adult fares range from HK$3.80 to $26.00. Concessionary fares are usually half the adult fare, and range from HK$2.40 to $13.00. Fares for the Airport Express Line are significantly higher.

The Octopus card is a rechargeable contactless smart card used in an electronic payment system in Hong Kong. It was launched in September 1997 for use on both the MTR and the KCR and now is the most widely used electronic cash system for transactions in Hong Kong as many retailers are fitted with readers.

The Octopus card uses radio frequency identification (RFID) technology so that users need only hold the card in front of the reader. Physical contact is not required, and the card need not even be taken out because the reader can penetrate through material. This fare collection system has been so popular that many cities such as Singapore, London, Chicago, and Taipei have adopted the idea, launching their own version of smart cards, respectively named EZ-link, Oyster card, and EasyCard.

Except for the Airport Express, MTR fares are slightly lower when using an Octopus card compared to using single journey tickets. For example, the cost of the 3-minute journey from Admiralty to Tsim Sha Tsui across the Victoria Harbour is (as of 2005) HK$7.9 using the Octopus card, compared with HK$9.0 for a single-journey ticket.

Two types of tourist passes are available: one allows unlimited rides for a single day (at HK$50), while the other allows three days of unlimited rides on the MTR, with a stored value of HK$20, refundable deposit of HK$50 and choice of either a single (HK$220) or return (HK$300) trip on the Airport Express.

Tourists are required to produce proof of tourist status, (e.g. passports or, in the case of Mainland travellers, entry permits) when purchasing the pass, and whenever requested by a ticket inspector during spot-checks.

The magnetic fare card system is used for single journey tickets. These tickets are pre-paid for between pre-determined stations, and are good for only one trip. There are no return tickets, except on the Airport Express. 

Fares for the Airport Express are substantially different from main line fares. Apart from single tickets, same-day return tickets (same price as a single), and one-month return tickets are also available.

A one-day pass can be used to unlimited travel to/from Hong Kong Disneyland within the same day, and costs HK$50. This pass can be purchased from any MTR Customer Service Centres or Airport Express Customer Service Centres.

Four variations of rolling stock operate on the MTR on 1.5kV DC overhead electrification. All trains are electric multiple units (EMUs), equipped with ATC and ATP, operating on 1432 mm rail gauge. Except for the rolling stock of the Airport Express, all trains are designed with features to cope with high density passenger traffic on stopping services. Examples are the latitudinal seating arrangement, additional ventilation fans and 5 doors on each side per car.

The Tung Chung Line and the Airport Express use dedicated rolling stock designs specified to their respective lines. Initially run in 7-car formations, they have now been lengthened to eight cars. These two variations are built jointly by Adtranz (now Bombardier Transportations) and Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles between 1994–97. 

The other lines are operated using a mixture of the other two variations, known as the "M-Train" and the "K-Stock". The "M-Stock" (or CM-Stock") of "M-Train" are the oldest trains on the MTR, built originally by Metro Cammell (now Alstom) and refurbished by United Goninan. The "M-Train" is the only variation that uses sliding doors, as opposed to others which use plug-doors. The "K-Stock" are built jointly by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and ROTEM, and a further order of 32 cars is due to be in service on the Tung Chung Line by 2007.

The Disneyland Resort Line uses driverless "M-Trains" with their appearance overhauled to suit the atmosphere and theme of the line. Windows on each carriage and the handrails inside are made into the shape of Mickey Mouse's head, and there are bronze-made Disney characters decorating the interior of the carriages.

Depots are located at Kowloon Bay (for Kwun Tong Line), Tsuen Wan (for Tsuen Wan Line), Heng Fa Chuen (for Island Line), and Dream City (for Tseung Kwan O Line). Tung Chung Line, Airport Express, and Disneyland Resort Line trains are serviced at Siu Ho Wan between Tung Chung and Sunny Bay.

With the objective "not only bring MTR passengers more time for life, but also more time for art", the "Art in MTR" Initiative has been a success since its reception in 1998, where the Airport Express Artwork Programme was the pioneer project. Thereafter, live performances, art exhibitions, display of artwork by established and emerging artists, students and young children have been brought into the MTR stations. MTR Corporation Limited have even made art part of the station architecture when building new stations or renovating existing ones. Artworks are exhibited in different forms on the network, including "arttube", open art gallery, community art galleries, roving art, living art, and art in station architecture.

By incorporating elements of art into the railway network, the travelling environment for the passengers is not only enhanced, but also makes their journeys even more pleasant and enjoyable. Moreover, with MTR stations being an integral part of the neighbourhood, the programme also provides opportunities to promote Hong Kong's community art, encourage art appreciation among the public and give residents a feeling of home at the stations.

MTR Corporation Limited has suggested several future projects to the Hong Kong Government, with some already being built. The network is also set to grow quite much when MTR Corporation Limited joins with the government-owned Kowloon-Canton Railway Corporation (KCRC), with the non-binding "Memorandum of Understanding" agreement signed on 11 April 2006 to give MTR Corporation control of the KCR network for 50 years. The new Sha Tin to Central Link that was first given to KCRC would now also be run by MTR Corporation Limited, which will run from Tai Wai Station in Tai Wai to Central.

It has also been suggested to improve parts of MTR that are running now. Airport Station on the Airport Express will have a new platform to serve passengers flying out of Hong Kong International Airport's Skyplaza. New subway links to the stations are also being made, and it has been proposed to lengthen the Tseung Kwan O Line with a branch line to Tseung Kwan O South, and the Kwun Tong Line as far as Whampoa Garden, also linking with the Sha Tin to Central Link expansion.

The West Island Line and South Island Line, first suggested to the government by MTR on 21 January 2003, was finally accepted on 30 June 2005. It was made up of the West Island Line that took the Island Line to Kennedy Town, and the South Island Line (East section) from Admiralty to Ap Lei Chau and South Island Line (West section) that connects the other two lines. This is being talked about now and the whole longer line should be finished and running by 2012.





</doc>
<doc id="45267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45267" title="Rib cage">
Rib cage

The ribcage is a part of the skeleton of humans and some animals. It is made up of curved bones. The rib cage is found in the chest area. It protects a persons internal organs from damage. Most humans have 12 pairs of rib bones with one from each pair on each side of the chest. Some people may have 11 or 13 pairs of rib bones. The bones are also filled with bone marrow, full of calcium and protein.


</doc>
<doc id="45271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45271" title="Founder">
Founder

Founder could mean:

Founders could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="45274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45274" title="Interview">
Interview

An interview is a conversation where somebody is trying to get information from another person. The person asking questions is called the "interviewer" and the person answering questions is called the "interviewee". Police interview suspects and witnesses to a crime to try and find out what happened. Employers interview people trying to get a job to find out if they are a good person for the job. Researchers might use an interview to ask people to find how they feel about a certain issue. Interviews are often used in journalism to get information that can be used for stories on news shows or in newspapers.


</doc>
<doc id="45277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45277" title="Category:Video game characters">
Category:Video game characters


</doc>
<doc id="45278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45278" title="Category:Polish people">
Category:Polish people


</doc>
<doc id="45280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45280" title="Athelstan">
Athelstan

Athelstan or Æthelstan, (893/4–27 October 939), called the Glorious, was the first King of England. He reigned from 924 to 939. He was the son of King Edward the Elder. Athelstan's reign is sometimes overlooked but it was of great importance to political developments in the 10th century.

Athelstan was the son of Edward the Elder, and grandson of Alfred the Great. His father succeeded, after some difficulty, to the Kingdom of the Anglo-Saxons formed by Alfred. His father had also been the King of Mercia. When Edward died Athelstan quickly became King of Mercia but he was not immediately accepted as King of England. His borther, Ælfweard, had more support in England but died soon after Edward. This made it easier for Athelstan to become king.

For Athelstan it was very important to have many allies. A year after his crowning he married one of his sisters to the Viking King of Northumbria, Sithric. However, Sihtric died only a year later, and Athelstan seized Northumbria. This move made him king of more land than any other before him, roughly the same as modern England. Historical records indicate that the other rulers in Great Britain accepted him as king at Bamburgh around this time.

Athelstan died at Gloucester in 939 and was succeeded by his half-brother, Edmund I.


</doc>
<doc id="45281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45281" title="Firefly (TV series)">
Firefly (TV series)

Firefly is an American science fiction television series. It first aired in the United States and Canada on September 20, 2002. It is set in the future, but also has many things about it which would be expected in a story of the American Old West. This combination of past and future gives a unique science fiction setting for the story. It was created by writer and director Joss Whedon, creator of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Angel". He created it with his production company, Mutant Enemy. Whedon was the executive producer, along with Tim Minear.

"Firefly" was first broadcast on the FOX network. It was cancelled after only eleven of the fourteen episodes were shown. Even though the show did not last long, it sold very well when it was released onto DVD and had great fan support. Because of this, Whedon and Universal Pictures made a movie based on the series, titled "Serenity". The movie was named after the fictional spaceship in the show. It won an Emmy in 2003 for "Outstanding Special Visual Effects for a Series". 

The series is set in 2517 AD. It follows the adventures of the crew of "Serenity", a "Firefly"-class spaceship. The cast play the nine characters who live on "Serenity". Whedon described the show as "nine people looking into the blackness of space and seeing nine different things". The show looks at the changing lives of people who fought on the losing side of a civil war. It also shows the pioneer culture that is on the edges of their star system. It is a future where the only two superpowers, the United States and China, joined to create a single government. This government was called the "Alliance". This also caused the two cultures to blend into each other. Whedon said that nothing has changed in the future. There are more people with better technology, but they still have the same problems politically, morally and ethically.

Whedon came up with the idea for the show after reading "The Killer Angels", a novel about the Battle of Gettysburg during the American Civil War. He wanted to follow people who had fought on the losing side of a war. He wanted to look at their lives after the war on the edges of civilization. It was meant to be the kind of drama with a lot of people trying to figure out their lives in a pioneer environment. Whedon wanted to have a show that was about when life was physical and things did not come easy to people. Whedon was also very interested in science fiction and wanted to make something for television that was character-driven and dirty.

For the name of the show, Joss Whedon wanted something that had strength and movement. He felt that the word "firefly" had both. The fact that it was also something small with a powerful name made him like it more. From there, he created the ship in the image of a firefly.

While making the first episode, Whedon was arguing with FOX that the show should be shown in widescreen format. Because of this, he filmed scenes with actors on the edge of both sides so that they would have to show it that way. However, the pilot was turned down by the FOX executives. They thought that it did not have enough action. They also did not like the captain. FOX told Whedon on a Friday afternoon that he had to make a new script by Monday morning or they would not do it. Whedon and Tim Minear spent the weekend writing a new episode, "The Train Job". In this new episode, the captain was more "happy" and they added "larger than life" characters. These characters were the henchman "Crow", and the "hands of blue" men, that also introduced a "X-Files"-type ending.

Production designer Carey Meyer built the ship "Serenity" in two parts. It was built as a complete set. It had ceilings and working lights built in as part of the set that the cameras could use. It also had movable parts. This helped with moving the camera around inside the set. There were other good things about this set design. One was that it let the people watching feel that they were really in a ship. For Whedon, the design of the ship was very important. It defined the known space for the viewer. He wanted to show that it was simple and that it was "beat-up but lived-in and ultimately, it was home". Each room had a feel to it, usually shown by the paint color. 

Their small budget was a reason to use the ship for much of telling the story. When the characters did go off of the ship, the worlds all had Earth atmosphere and colors. They could not afford to build alien worlds.

The theme song, "The Ballad of Serenity", was written by Joss Whedon and performed by Sonny Rhodes. Whedon wrote the song before the series was approved by Fox. An early recording done by Whedon can be found on the DVD release.
The soundtrack to the series was released on CD on November 8, 2005 by Varèse Sarabande. The musical score matches the blending of cultures in the show. Cowboy guitar blended with an Asian feel was the musical background for the series. Greg Edmonson wrote the music for the series. He said that he wrote for the emotion of the moment.

In casting his nine-member crew, Whedon looked first at the actor and how they got along with others. All nine cast members were chosen before filming began. However, while filming the original pilot "Serenity", Whedon saw that the actress cast as Inara Serra (Rebecca Gayheart) was not right for the role.Morena Baccarin auditioned for the role and two days later was on the set in her first television show. 

Whedon asked Nathan Fillion to play the lead role of Malcolm Reynolds. After telling him the idea for the show and showing him the pilot, Fillion wanted the role. Fillion was called back several times to read for the part before he was cast.

Alan Tudyk auditioned and was told to come back in to test with the possible Zoes (the character's wife). It was down to him and one other person. The Zoes did not work out and Tudyk was sent home. He got a call telling him he had the part anyway. 

Veteran science fiction-fantasy actress Gina Torres ("The Matrix Reloaded", "") did not at first want to do another science fiction show, but "was won over by the quality of the source material." As she recalled, "So you had these challenged characters inhabiting a challenging world and that makes for great storytelling. AND NO ALIENS!" 

Adam Baldwin grew up watching westerns. The character of Jayne Cobb was a role that was perfect for him.

Canadian actress Jewel Staite has been an actress since age nine. She videotaped her audition from Vancouver. she was asked to come to Los Angeles to meet Whedon, where she was cast for the role of Kaylee Frye, the ship's engineer.

Sean Maher remembers reading for the part and liking the character of Simon Tam. He said it was Whedon's personality and vision that "sealed the deal" for him. For the role of Simon's sister, Whedon called in Summer Glau for an audition and test the same day. Glau had first worked for Whedon on an episode of "Angel". Two weeks later Whedon called her to tell her she had the part. This was Glau's first speaking role. 

The veteran television actor Ron Glass ("Barney Miller", "All in the Family"), has said that until "Firefly", he had not thought about a science-fiction western role but he fell in love with the pilot script and the character of Shepherd Book.

The series takes place in the year 2517, on several planets and moons. The television series does not say if these are in one star system. The movie "Serenity" makes clear that all the planets and moons are in one large system. The characters refer to "Earth-that-was" and in the movie, it is said that long before the events in the series a large population had left from Earth to a new star system: "Earth that was could no longer sustain our numbers, we were so many." The people settled in this new star system, with "dozens of planets and hundreds of moons." Many of these were terraformed, a process in which a planet or moon is altered to resemble the Earth. The terraforming process was only the first step in making a planet livable. Only the most central planets got more treatment. This caused many of the border planets and moons to have environments that fit the Western setting.
The show takes its name from the "Firefly"-class spaceship "Serenity" that the main characters call home. Its tail section lights up during acceleration, looking like the glowing part of a firefly.

The Alliance is shown to control the star system through an organization of "core" planets. DVD commentary suggests that two main "core" planets make up the Alliance. One is mostly Occidental in culture, the other is Asian. This explains the series' mixed linguistic and visual themes. The central planets are under Alliance control, but the outer planets and moons resemble the 19th century American West, with little government control. Settlers people on the outer worlds have relative freedom from the central government. The outer areas also have Reavers, a cannibalistic race. 

The captain of the crew of "Serenity" is Malcolm "Mal" Reynolds (Nathan Fillion). The episode "Serenity" shows that the captain and his first mate Zoe Washburne (Gina Torres) are veteran "Browncoats" of the civil war. A later episode, titled "Out of Gas", shows that Mal bought the spaceship "Serenity" to continue living beyond Alliance control. Much of the crew's work is made up of cargo runs or smuggling. One of the main story arcs is that of River Tam (Summer Glau) and her brother Simon (Sean Maher). River was a child prodigy. Her brain was experimented on. She seems to have schizophrenia and often hears voices. It is later found out that she is a "reader", someone with psychic abilities. Simon gave up a very good career as a surgeon to save her from the Alliance. They join the crew in the original "Serenity". Because of this rescue, they are both wanted criminals.

"Firefly" takes place in a multi-cultural future. Because of this, Mandarin Chinese is a common second language. It is used in advertisements, and characters in the show often use Chinese words and curses. 

The show also has slang not used in today's culture. There are changes to modern words, or new words ("shiny" is a synonym of "cool"). The Japanese katakana and an Old West dialect are also used. 

One of the problems that Whedon had with FOX was the tone of the show, especially with the main character Malcolm Reynolds. FOX wanted Whedon to make his character more "jolly". They felt he was too dark in the original pilot. 

"Firefly" had an ensemble cast that played the nine crew members of the ship, "Serenity". These characters fight criminals, Alliance security forces, the insane Reavers, and the mysterious men with "hands of blue" - who seem to work for a secret agency which is part of the huge corporation, The Blue Sun Corporation. The crew needs to get enough income to keep their ship working. While doing this, they must stay hidden from people looking for them. 


All nine major characters are in every episode, with one exception: Book is absent from "Ariel".





</doc>
<doc id="45287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45287" title="Canute">
Canute

Canute (or Cnut the Great) (ca. 995–12 November 1035) was a Viking King of England, Denmark, Norway, part of Sweden and governor or overlord of Schleswig and Pomerania. Danish influence in the North Sea region was never greater than in his time. He had treaties with the Holy Roman Emperors, Henry II and Conrad II and good relations with the popes of his time. 

Canute was the only man to be King of England, Denmark and Norway. He also ruled part of Sweden.

In the summer of 1015, Cnut's fleet set sail for England with a Danish army of perhaps 10,000 in 200 longships. Cnut was at the head of an array of Vikings from all over Scandinavia. The invasion force was to be in often close and grisly warfare with the English for the next fourteen months. Practically all of the battles were fought against Aethelred's son, Edmund Ironside.

After ascending the throne in 1016, Canute executed many of Edmund's followers, to make his crown safe.

Canute, a Christian, had two wives. His first wife, or perhaps concubine, was called Ælfgifu. She was a handfast wife, meaning the marriage was made by joining hands, not by a church ceremony. This was legal at that time. She became his northern queen. 

His second wife was Emma of Normandy, was also called Ælfgifu in Old English. Hers was a Christian wedding. She was kept in the south, with an estate in Exeter.

Both wives bore sons who became kings of England. Canute kept the Church sweet with many gifts.


There is a story that Canute sat on his throne ordering the sea to turn back. We do not know whether this really happened. It seems to come from Henry of Huntington (c. 1088 – c. 1154).



</doc>
<doc id="45289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45289" title="Henry II, Holy Roman Emperor">
Henry II, Holy Roman Emperor

Saint Henry II (972 – 13 July 1024), called the Holy or the Saint, was the fifth and last Holy Roman Emperor of the Saxon or Ottonian dynasty. 


</doc>
<doc id="45294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45294" title="SMTP">
SMTP

SMTP or Simple Mail Transfer Protocol is a Internet mail protocol. It is a TCP/IP protocol used to send e-mails. Mail servers often use SMTP to send e-mails and POP or IMAP to let clients download the e-mails.


</doc>
<doc id="45295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45295" title="POP">
POP

POP is an acronym. It can stand for different things:


</doc>
<doc id="45296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45296" title="Internet protocol suite">
Internet protocol suite

The Internet protocol suite, also called TCP/IP for "Transmission Control Protocol / Internet Protocol". 

Its name comes from two of the main protocols: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and the Internet Protocol (IP).


</doc>
<doc id="45297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45297" title="Conrad II, Holy Roman Emperor">
Conrad II, Holy Roman Emperor

Conrad II (c. 990 – June 4, 1039) was the son of Count Henry of Speyer and Adelheid of Alsace. He was elected king in 1024 and crowned emperor of the Holy Roman Empire on March 26, 1027, the first emperor of the Salian Dynasty.

During his reign, he proved that the German monarchy had become strong enogh that it no longer depended on contracts between king and dukes alone.


</doc>
<doc id="45300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45300" title="Ottonian dynasty">
Ottonian dynasty

Ottonian dynasty was a dynasty of kings of Germany, named after its first emperor Otto I the Great. But it is also known as the Saxon dynasty after the origin of this family of noblemen. The family itself is also sometimes known as the Liudolfings, after its earliest known member "Liudolf" and one of its most common names. The Ottonian rulers are also regarded as the first dynasty of the Holy Roman Empire, as successors of the Carolingian dynasty and Charlemagne, who is commonly viewed as the original founder of a new (Frankish) Roman Empire.

Although he was never Emperor, Henry I the Fowler, Duke of Saxony, was the founder of this imperial dynasty, since his election as German king made it possible for his son, Otto the Great to take on the imperium. Since Otto I most of the German kings were also crowned Holy Roman Emperor. Under the reign of the Ottonian rulers, the kingdom of the Eastern Franks finally became Germany as the duchies of Lorraine, Saxony, Franconia, Swabia, Thuringia and Bavaria joined in one empire. 

After the end of the Ottonian dynasty (with the death of Henry II in 1024) the crown passed to the Salian dynasty. Luitgard, a daughter of Emperor Otto I had married the Salian Duke Conrad the Red of Lorraine. His great-grandson was Conrad II, Holy Roman Emperor. 

Ottonian Kings and Emperors:

Some other famous members of the Liudolfing or Ottonian House:


</doc>
<doc id="45302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45302" title="Copernicium">
Copernicium

Copernicium (former Ununbium) is a chemical element in the Periodic Table. It is also named eka-mercury. It has the symbol Cn. It has the atomic number 112. It is a transuranium element.

Using periodic trends, people think that it will be a liquid metal. It is likely to be more volatile than mercury.

Ununbium was first made on February 9, 1996 at the Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung (GSI) in Darmstadt, Germany. Ununbium was made by nuclear fusion of a zinc atom with a lead atom. The zinc nuclei was bombarded on to a lead target in a machine named a heavy ion accelerator.

The element was made in 2000 and 2004 at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Russia.

In May 2006 in the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research checked that it had been made using a different method. They identified the last atoms that were made from radioactive decay of ununbium.

In February 2010 IUPAC officially approved the name copernicium and symbol Cn.



</doc>
<doc id="45303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45303" title="Otto I the Great">
Otto I the Great

Otto I the Great (November 23 912 – May 7 973), son of Henry I the Fowler, king of the Germans, and Matilda of Ringelheim, was Duke of the Saxons, King of the Germans and Holy Roman Emperor.


</doc>
<doc id="45305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45305" title="Tropic of Capricorn">
Tropic of Capricorn

The Tropic of Capricorn, or Southern tropic, is one of the five major circles of latitude of a map of the Earth. It is 23° 26′ 22″ south of the Equator.

It marks the most southerly latitude at which the sun can appear directly overhead. This happens at the December solstice, when the southern hemisphere is tilted towards the sun to its maximum extent.

The Tropic of Capricorn goes in the these countries, starting at the prime meridian and going west:

The Tropic of Capricorn is named because about 2000 years ago the sun was entering the constellation Capricornus on the December solstice. Now the sun appears in the constellation Sagittarius during the December solstice. The change is due to precession of the equinoxes. The word "tropic" comes from the Greek tropos, meaning "turn". This refers to the fact that the sun appears to "turn back" at the solstices.



</doc>
<doc id="45311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45311" title="Edward III of England">
Edward III of England

Edward III (13 November 1312–21 June 1377) was one of the most successful English monarchs of the Middle Ages. He ruled for 50 years. 

He made England the strongest military power in Europe. 

Edward was crowned when he was fourteen years old, after his father was forced to resign. After his victory against the Scots, he declared himself heir to the French throne in 1337 and so started the Hundred Years' War. The war went very well for England; the victories of Crécy and Poitiers led up to the Treaty of Brétigny by which he gained a lot of territory. When he became older, he was much less active mostly a result of his bad health.

Edward also established the Order of the Garter, and developed of legislature and government. But during his reign there was the Black Death. 

In his own time and for centuries after Edward III was praised a lot. But by Whig historians he was seen as an irresponsible adventurer. This view has turned, and modern historians see what a good king he was.

The "Medieval Sourcebook" (Home page) has some good sources relating to the reign of Edward III:


</doc>
<doc id="45312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45312" title="Wicked Science">
Wicked Science

Wicked Sciences is an Australian television series. It takes place in Sandy Bay. It tells the story of two teenagers who suddenly become science geniuses. 

Toby Johnson is a normal student of Sandy Bay High School, juggling between school and the normal life of a teenager. Elizabeth Hawke is the teacher's pet. Nobody like her in the high school and she likes nobody, excepted Tony. She has liked Tony from her childhood. One day, Toby and her were in the laboratory of the school. They were hit by a strange blue ray and they become sciences geniuses. But they do not know why. The normal life of Sandy Bay is changed by the two geniuses. 

On the first school day at Sandy Bay High School, Toby and his best-friend Russel met a new student, Dina Demeris. They quickly became friends. During science class, they were chatting. When they got caught, Dina was the one who was going to be punished, but Toby said that it was his fault. He was to be punished with Russ. The teacher, Mr. Tesslar showed the students the fossils he found during the summer. He started to scan them with a machine and asked who wanted to finish the work. Elizabeth accepted. That evening, Russ, Toby and Elizabeth were in the science laboratory. Toby and Russ had to clean the aquarium, and Elizabeth was scanning the stones. Russ had a bad idea. He tried to use his mouth to change the water. He ran to the restrooms and Toby and Elizabeth cleaned the ground. A frog got out of the aquarium and jumped on the keyboard of the machine. The device scanned a strange blue stone and made a blue ray which hit Toby and Elizabeth.



</doc>
<doc id="45313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45313" title="Harold Wilson">
Harold Wilson

James Harold Wilson, Baron Wilson of Rievaulx, KG, OBE, FRS, PC (11 March 1916 – 24 May 1995) was one of the most prominent British politicians of the 20th century. He was an MP from 1945-1983. He won more elections than any other 20th century Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (in 1964, 1966, February and October 1974) — but only once with a clear majority (1966). 

Wilson resigned as Prime Minister and leader of the Labour Party in 1976. He died of colon cancer and Alzheimer's disease in 1995. 



</doc>
<doc id="45314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45314" title="Labour Party (UK)">
Labour Party (UK)

The Labour Party is the main centre-left political party in the United Kingdom. They are a democratic socialist party and have been one of the UK's two main political parties from the early 20th century, to the present day. They are currently the second largest party in the British House of Commons, with 258 out of 650 seats and they form the Official Opposition. Their current leader is Ed Miliband.

The Labour Party was in power in the United Kingdom government from 1997 to 2010, but now sits in opposition. It was in power in the Scottish Parliament (in coalition with the Scottish Liberal Democrats) until 2007, and is the second largest grouping on the London Assembly, although the Mayor of London until May 2008 was a Labour party member. It is also the 2nd largest party in Local Government and the 2nd largest UK party in the European Parliament.

The party was officially formed in 1906, just after the general election, as a successor of the Labour Representative Committee formed in 1900. In 1918, the party made a new constitution with the commitment to socialism, or the socialization of the industry. This could be found in Clause 4.
The Labour Party won the general election in 1945 for the first time. From 1951 Labour was in opposition for thirteen years, during which there were serious fights between the left and right wings of the party. The leader of the left wing was Aneurin Bevan. His supporters were called the ""Bevanites"". They wanted a less confrontational policy in foreign affairs and more socialist actions. The leaders of the right wing were Clement Attlee and Hugh Gaitskell. They believed that Western capitalism had changed a lot and that socialism and public ownership was not so important. Gaitskell tried to remove Clause 4 from the party constitution at the 1959 conference, but he could not.

In 1994 Tony Blair forced the Labour Party to drop Clause 4. This was an important step to change the party into "New Labour".




</doc>
<doc id="45315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45315" title="Cyperus papyrus">
Cyperus papyrus

Cyperus papyrus (also known as Papyrus sedge, Bulrush or Paper reed) is a plant. It is a sedge. The plant is perennial and originally comes from Africa. It was used to make a fabric much like paper. This was called papyrus, and served much the same purpose that paper does today. Its roots were also used as fuels. 

It is almost extinct along the shores of the river Nile where it was originally cultivated.


</doc>
<doc id="45320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45320" title="Georgia Institute of Technology">
Georgia Institute of Technology

The Georgia Institute of Technology is a public university (school for after high school) in Atlanta, Georgia. It is also known as Georgia Tech. 

It focuses primarily on engineering, science and computer science, but also has schools of management, architecture, and liberal arts.

When it opened in 1885, the school's main focus was on practical experience (learning things by doing them); students spent half of their time in class, and half in the shop. 

It first admitted women in 1952. 

In 1961, it was the first university in the South to integrate (let people of different races go to school together) without a court order.

The school's colors are white and old gold (mustard yellow). Their mascot is Buzz, a Yellow Jacket (a kind of bee-like wasp). 


</doc>
<doc id="45343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45343" title="Dissident">
Dissident

A dissident is a person who does not agree with an opinion, policy, or structure. There are also other types of dissidents like social dissidents who do not agree with popular social attitudes.


</doc>
<doc id="45354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45354" title="Josiah">
Josiah

Josiah was a child king of Judah. He was born around 648 BC. Josiah started his rule as king at the age of 8 when his father, Amon, died. Josiah was thought of as a good king. He following in the steps of his ancestor King David.

Josiah ruled for 31 years in Jerusalem and died in 609 BC. He was killed by King Necho of Egypt while Josiah was helping the king of Assyria fight off the attacks of the Egyptian. Josiah's son Jehoahaz became the new King of Judah.


Josiah was the most bestest gooder person in the world, becauses he great and nice


</doc>
<doc id="45355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45355" title="Jehoahaz of Judah">
Jehoahaz of Judah

Jehoahaz was a king of Judah. His birth name was Shallum. He is thought to be an evil king. Jehoahaz began his rule at age 23 in 609 BC when his father, King Josiah was killed by the king of Egypt. Necho. He only ruled for 3 months in Jerusalem before the Egyptian king took him to Egypt and put another of Josiah's sons on the throne as the new King of Judah. Jehoahaz died in Egypt.


</doc>
<doc id="45359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45359" title="Category:Seven deadly sins">
Category:Seven deadly sins


</doc>
<doc id="45360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45360" title="Antarctic Circle">
Antarctic Circle

The Antarctic Circle is one of the five major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth. It is the parallel of latitude at 66° 33′ 39″ south of the Equator, crossing mostly the Southern Ocean.

In the Antarctic Circle, all places have twenty-four hours of daylight on the Summer Solstice in December. In June on the Winter Solstice all places have twenty-four hours of night. There is a minimum of one whole day that the sun does not set and one whole day that the sun does not rise.

The area south of this circle is named the Antarctic, and the zone to the north is the Southern Temperate Zone.

The continent of Antarctica is a land mass that is most of the area within the Antarctic Circle. The South Pole is in the center of the Antarctic Circle.

There is no permanent population of persons south of the Antarctic Circle. There are research centers from some nations on Antarctica. Teams of scientists live in the research centers for part of the year. In past centuries some whaling stations were set up on Antarctica and some of the whalers would live there for a year or more. At least three children have been born in Antarctica. They would be citizens of Antarctica if there were a nation on the continent.




</doc>
<doc id="45361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45361" title="Category:Nomadic people">
Category:Nomadic people


</doc>
<doc id="45362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45362" title="Toast">
Toast

Toast is bread which has been grilled until hot and crispy either using a toaster, a grill or rarely a flamethrower. Toasted bread is both darker in color and crunchier than normal bread. Crunchy bread means it has a consistency and a feeling in a mouth of crispiness. Toast can be eaten with a range of condiments spread on the surface, such as butter, jam, honey, though these are optional as some people prefer their toast without ('au naturel').

Toast can also be used to make 'toasties', where a filling is compressed and heated between two slices of buttered bread in a toastie maker. Popular fillings include cheese, jam and chocolate spread. 


</doc>
<doc id="45363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45363" title="Toaster">
Toaster

A toaster is a machine that cooks bread. The bread is put into the toaster and after a few minutes it pops up, toasted. The pop-up toaster was invented by Charles Strite in 1919. 



</doc>
<doc id="45365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45365" title="Swiss cheese">
Swiss cheese

Swiss cheese is a group of cheeses with holes in them. These cheeses got their name because they look like Swiss Emmental cheese.

Swiss cheese is famous for having holes. The holes are created by the bacteria which change milk to Swiss cheese. "Propionibacter" uses the lactic acid which is produced by other bacteria, and produces carbon dioxide gas; the gas slowly forms bubbles which makes the holes. The holes of the cheese are called the "eyes", and a Swiss cheese which does not have holes is called a "blind" cheese.

In general, Swiss cheeses with larger eyes have a better taste. This is because the same factors that make the eyes larger, make the taste of the cheese better too. These factors include longer time and higher temperature given to the cheese to form.



</doc>
<doc id="45366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45366" title="Henry VI of England">
Henry VI of England

Henry VI (6 December 1421-21 May 1471) was King of England from 1422 to 1461 and then from 1470 to 1471. He was also the King of France from 1422 to 1453.

Henry was the only child of King Henry V of England and was his heir. He was born on 6 December 1421 at Windsor. He became king at the age of nine months on 31 August 1422, when his father died. His mother, Catherine of Valois was then only twenty years old. Because she was the daughter of King Charles VI of France, and France had been the enemy of England, the English people did not trust her and she was not allowed to have a large part in raising her son.

Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, Henry IV's youngest son, was given the position of "Protector and Defender of the Realm and the Church" (Regent of England) until the King was old enough to rule. His job was to keep the peace and deal with Parliament. Henry IV's oldest living son, John, Duke of Bedford, was made the Regent of France. He was in charge of running the war that was happening. Bedford also replaced Gloucester as Regent of England whenever he was in England.

Henry was eventually made King of England at Westminster Abbey on 6 November 1429 a month before his eighth birthday. He was made King of France at Notre Dame in Paris on 16 December 1431. Because he was a child he was not allowed to control the government until he was declared of age on his sixteenth birthday in 1437, the same year his mother died.

Because of his success in the Hundred Years' War, Henry V had left England with a lot of land in France. Since Henry VI was still a child, and England was ruled by a Regent, much of the land his father gained was lost. Diplomatic mistakes as well as military failures caused the loss of most of the English land in France. 

Henry VI was a deeply spiritual man and was not very interested in politics. He let his court be controlled by a few noblemen who were called his "favourites". The people who wanted to end the war in France became more powerful, and Henry went along with them. Henry VI was told that the best way of get peace with France was to marry Margaret of Anjou, who was a niece of King Charles VII of France. Charles agreed to let Henry marry Margaret as long as he did not have to give her a dowry and was given the lands of Maine and Anjou by the English. Henry agreed, but did not let Parliament know about giving away Maine and Anjou, thinking that the English people would not be happy to know that the land was being given away to France.

The marriage happened in 1445. Margaret was much the opposite of Henry. She was ready to take decisions and lead while he was happy to be led by her. Margaret was a stronger ruler than Henry ever was, even though she was only sixteen at that time.

Henry VI was imprisoned in the Tower of London, where he was murdered on 21 May 1471. Popular legend said that Richard, Duke of Gloucester was guilty of his murder, as well as the murder of Henry VI's son Edward of Westminster.

King Henry VI was originally buried in Chertsey Abbey. In 1485, his body was moved to St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle.

He was succeeded by Edward IV, son of Richard, Duke of York.


</doc>
<doc id="45370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45370" title="Category:Hesse">
Category:Hesse


</doc>
<doc id="45371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45371" title="Category:Biologists">
Category:Biologists


</doc>
<doc id="45374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45374" title="Saint-Fons">
Saint-Fons

Saint-Fons is a French city next to Lyon. About 15.000 people live there. The name of the city does not come from a saint. It is because there are many fountains near the city. Originally the place name was "Cent Fonts" ( 100 sources), which was changed into the current city name. The city split from Vénissieux in the middle of the 19th century. The main reason for splitting was because of the chemical industry in the spot.


</doc>
<doc id="45376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45376" title="Incidental music">
Incidental music

Incidental music is music which has been written for a play. It is not like opera where there is usually music all the way through. Incidental music will be used between scenes or for particularly important moments in the play or for songs sung by the actors. It is called “incidental” because the music is not as important as the play.

Incidental music was used as long ago as the time of Ancient Greece. It was used in the 16th and 17th centuries, especially in the plays of Shakespeare whose characters often sing songs. At this time incidental music was used more often for comedies than for tragedies. Tragedies were about important people who were busy ruling their country and having wars. In the plays they spoke in verse and were too noble to sing. People thought that comedies were more suitable for including music. The songs were often sung by actors playing the parts of shepherds, nymphs or clowns.

In later centuries music was used for all types of serious drama. Sometimes large orchestras were used. Many famous composers wrote music to be played by an orchestra during plays. A famous example is the incidental music for Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night's Dream” composed by Felix Mendelssohn in 1842. Other composers worked with living poets such as Goethe and Schiller. Beethoven wrote music for Goethe’s play "Egmont". This music is very closely linked to what happens in the story: the overture describes the harshness of the Spanish oppression of the Netherlands which is what the play is about. Schubert’s famous "Rosamunde" overture comes from a play called "Die Zauberharfe" ("The Magic Harp"). Schumann’s music for "Manfred" is different: it was never intended to be performed with the play, it was just inspired by Schumann’s imagination. Many other composers wrote incidental music, e.g. Sibelius (for Maeterlinck’s play "Pelléas et Mélisande") and Grieg (for Ibsen’s play "Peer Gynt").

In all these examples the music is now usually heard at concerts, not as part of the original play. Most of them have overtures (music played before the play starts) and these overtures are often performed separately, very often at the start of concerts.

Incidental music was not used so much during the 20th century although the plays of Brecht, which are often about political propaganda, needed a new kind of popular music. Brecht worked with composers like Weill and Eisler who understood the kind of message that he wanted in his plays. Their music for Brecht’s plays is similar to cabaret music.

Nowadays electronic music is often used in plays.


</doc>
<doc id="45380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45380" title="Kayak">
Kayak

A kayak is a small boat that is driven by manpower. It typically has a covered deck, and a cockpit covered by a spraydeck. It is propelled by a double-bladed paddle by a sitting paddler. The kayak was used by the native Ainu, Inuit, Aleut and Eskimo hunters in sub-Arctic regions of northeastern Asia, North America and Greenland. Modern kayaks come in a wide variety of designs and materials for specialized purposes.

Kayaks typically are built for one, two or occasionally three paddlers who sit facing forward in one or more cockpits below the deck of the boat. The spray skirt or similar waterproof garment attaches securely to the edges of the cockpit, so that no water from waves or spray may enter the boat. Therefore in most styles the boat can roll upright again without it filling with water or ejecting the paddler.

Kayaks differ distinctly in design and history from canoes, which are craft propelled by single-bladed paddles by a kneeling paddler, although some modern canoes may be difficult for a non-expert to distinguish from a kayak. Kayaks are often called canoes in Great Britain and Ireland.



</doc>
<doc id="45389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45389" title="Canoe">
Canoe

A canoe is a small boat, that is often driven by manpower or womanpower, but also commonly sailed. Canoes are pointed at both ends and usually open on top, but can be covered. Canoes are known as "Paddle boats" in some small towns in the south of Australia. The use of a paddle or "salvatore" is used to propell the vehicle. The most famous of rowers include the Szwedo of Luke in which he was the first man to complete 4 laps the woodend river in less then 3 days. Beating the previous pre-fisted jew and his record of 4 laps in 4 days.

The canoe is propelled by the use of paddles, with the number of paddlers depending on the size of the canoe (most commonly 2). Paddlers face in the direction of travel, either seated or kneeling. In this way paddling a canoe can be contrasted with rowing, where the rowers face away from the direction of travel. Paddles may be single-bladed or double-bladed.



</doc>
<doc id="45393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45393" title="Paddle">
Paddle

A paddle is a tool used for pushing against liquids, either as a form of propulsion in a boat or for mixing liquids.

Paddles commonly used in canoes consist of a wooden, fibreglass or metal rod (the "shaft") with a handle on one end and a rigid sheet (the "blade") on the other end. Paddles for use in kayaks are longer, with a blade on each end, and usually no handles. 


</doc>
<doc id="45395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45395" title="Mahdi">
Mahdi

The religion Islam says that the Mahdi/ Mehdi is the prophesied savior of humanity. It is said that he and the Prophet Jesus will change the world for the better, bringing God in all hearts, before Yaum al-Qiyamah ("Day of the Resurrection"). 



</doc>
<doc id="45396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45396" title="Propulsion tools">
Propulsion tools

For ground propulsion the first instrument was the wheel.

For water propulsion it were pole, paddle, oar and sail. Nowadays the most common types are underwater propeller, water jet and paddle wheel. Sails are still common, and historically represented the most important form of early propulsion for large ships. 

For air propulsion, the most common types are propeller, jet engine, turboprop, ramjet, rocket propulsion, and, experimentally, scramjet, pulse jet, and pulse detonation engine.


</doc>
<doc id="45398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45398" title="Oar">
Oar

An oar is a tool used for water-propulsion. Oars have a flat blade at one end. The oarsmen grasp the oar at the other end. What distinguishes oars from paddles is that paddles are held by the paddler, and are not connected with the vessel. Oars generally are fastened to the vessel.


</doc>
<doc id="45403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45403" title="Drama">
Drama

Drama is a type of literature. A Drama can be in the form of a novel, television show, movie, play or dance. Although drama is a Greek word meaning "action", most dramas focus more on the relationships between people than on the actions. Dramas usually have a serious feel to them. Drama is considered the opposite of comedy, but drama and comedy can be used at the same time.


</doc>
<doc id="45409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45409" title="Currant">
Currant

A currant is a type of fruit. They are like grapes. There are two different species. One famous type of currant is the gooseberry.


</doc>
<doc id="45410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45410" title="Mast">
Mast

The mast of a sailing ship is a tall vertical pole which supports the sails. Larger ships have several masts, with the size depending on the style of ship.

Until the 20th century, a ship's masts would be wooden spars, originally constructed from a single straight tree trunk. As ship sizes increased, taller masts were constructed by lashing up to three spars together. 



</doc>
<doc id="45412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45412" title="Juan Manuel Fangio">
Juan Manuel Fangio

Juan Manuel Fangio (June 24, 1911 - July 17, 1995) was a legendary race car driver. He was often called The Maestro, because he dominated the first ten years of Formula One racing, by winning the drivers' championship five times. Those five times were 1951, and from 1954 to 1957. (1954, 1955, 1956 and 1957).


</doc>
<doc id="45413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45413" title="Trunk (botany)">
Trunk (botany)

The trunk is the main stem of the tree. In terms of botany it means the main structural member of a tree that is directly connected to the roots and which supports the branches. The trunk is also often called the bole. The trunk is covered by the bark, which protects the tree against damage and often differs markedly from the bottom of the trunk to the top, depending on the species. The trunk, or bole, is the most important part of the tree for timber production. The tree trunk can be separated into five different layers: the heartwood, the sapwood, the vascular cambium, the inner bark, and the outer bark.




</doc>
<doc id="45414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45414" title="Ziziphus">
Ziziphus

Zizhiphus is a type of tree that grows fruit. The species "Z. mauritianis" is known as the Jujupe. They are mostly found in India.


</doc>
<doc id="45415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45415" title="Cayenne pepper">
Cayenne pepper

The Cayenne pepper is a type of Chili pepper. It is very hot and is used as a spice. It is also utilized for its health benefits.



</doc>
<doc id="45418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45418" title="Tsaagan">
Tsaagan

Tsaagan was a dinosaur related to Velociraptor. It was in the family Dromaeosauridae. It lived in Asia about 75 million years ago.


</doc>
<doc id="45419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45419" title="Category:Lists">
Category:Lists


</doc>
<doc id="45420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45420" title="Edward II of England">
Edward II of England

Edward II (April 25, 1284–1327) of Caernarfon, was King of England from 1307 until he was removed from the throne in January 1327. His tendency to ignore his nobility, in favour of low-born favorites, led to political trouble and eventually to his removal from the throne. He is most remembered for a story about his alleged murder, which was linked to his reliance on the corrupt family of Hugh le Despenser, which has been seen by some as evidence of his homosexuality.


</doc>
<doc id="45423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45423" title="Richard III of England">
Richard III of England

Richard III (1452–1485) was an English king. He reigned from 1483 until 1485. 

Richard was the youngest son of Richard, Duke of York. He had three elder brothers, Edward, Edmund and George. Richard, Duke of York, and his second son, Edmund, were both killed in battle during the Wars of the Roses. The eldest son, Edward, was a very good soldier, and won the throne of England in battle against the reigning king, King Henry VI. Edward then became King Edward IV of England and his two brothers, George and Richard, became very powerful men. 

Richard married Anne Neville, whose father had once been a friend of the family. Richard and Anne had known each other since they were children, but Anne had been taken to France, where she had married the Prince of Wales, the son of Henry VI. When the Prince of Wales was killed in battle, Anne became a widow, and soon she was married to Richard, even though he had been her husband's enemy. Richard and Anne lived at Middleham Castle in the north of England. They had one son, who was named Edward after Richard's brother, King Edward. Richard quarrelled frequently with his brother George, who was married to Anne's sister, Isabel. George was a trouble-maker, and he made his brother, King Edward, so angry that he was put in prison, where he died. 

King Edward married a woman called Elizabeth Woodville, who had been married before and had many relations. Soon her relations became very rich and powerful, causing bad feeling among those who had been in the king's favour before the marriage. Edward and Elizabeth had several children, including two sons, who were named Edward and Richard.

When King Edward died, his elder son Edward should have been the next king, but he was still a boy. Richard had been asked by his brother the king to look after the two boys. He was worried that the new young king would not be able to rule the country properly. He was also worried that the Woodville family would soon be telling the king what to do and ruling the country for themselves.

Richard took the throne from his nephew, Edward V, and sent Edward and his brother to the Tower of London. They were both probably murdered. At the time, many people believed that King Richard had ordered them to be killed, but no one is really sure what happened to them.

There has been a lot of discussion, over many years, about whether Richard III was a good king or a bad king. During his reign, which lasted only two years, he was very popular in parts of the country, especially the north of England (where he was born). However, there were enough people who hated him to make sure that his enemies were able to raise a big army against him and defeat him in battle.

Richard was killed at the Battle of Bosworth Field in 1485. He was the last English king to die in battle. Henry Tudor, who led the army that defeated him, became the next King of England.



</doc>
<doc id="45429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45429" title="Tampa Bay Rays">
Tampa Bay Rays

The Tampa Bay Rays are a Major League Baseball team that plays in St. Petersburg, Florida. From the team being started in 1998 until November 2007, it was known as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Their home stadium is Tropicana Field.

The Rays played their first game on March 31, 1998 against the Detroit Tigers (as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays), which they lost 11-6. They were one of the least successful teams in the Major Leagues until 2008, when they finished in first place in the American League East and had one of the best records in baseball. They made it to the World Series but were beaten by Philadelphia in five games. Evan Longoria brought the team's first AL Rookie of the Year award to the team on November 10, 2008.

On November 8, 2007, the team changed its name to Tampa Bay Rays.

The Rays have rivalries with two teams. The Boston Red Sox is one due to the 2008 American League Championship Series, the other is the Florida Marlins due their in-state location. When the Rays and Marlins meet during inter-league play (when the American League (Rays) and National League (Marlins) play each other) it is known as the "Citrus Series".



</doc>
<doc id="45430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45430" title="Flux Of Pink Indians">
Flux Of Pink Indians

Flux of Pink Indians was political punk band. It was formed in Hertfordshire, England in 1980. Flux of Pink Indians was made up of Colin Latter (vocals), Derek Birkett (bass), Kevin Hunter (guitar) and Martin Wilson (drums). The band was originally called the Epileptics and later changed their name to Epi-X after complaints from the British Epilepsy Association. In 1981, the group signed on with the Crass label. They took on the organization's dedication to anarchist politics and punk abrasion. They issued their debut album "Neu Smell" soon after signing. With that album they got an indie hit with "Johnny Kidd".

Upon creating their own label, Spiderleg, Flux of Pink Indians resurfaced in 1982 with the album "Strive to Survive Causing Least Suffering Possible". Not surprisingly, their 1983 follow-up "The Fucking Cunts Treat Us Like Pricks" was banned by many British retailers. One Manchester indie record store which did carry the record was charged for displaying "obscene articles for publication for gain." A long time off followed before the group - now known as Flux - returned in 1986 with the largely instrumental "Uncarved Block". They disbanded in 1987; Derek Birkett later founded the One Little Indian label.

Their latest CD came out in 2003.



</doc>
<doc id="45437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45437" title="Canadian Football League">
Canadian Football League

Canadian Football League (CFL) is a professional sports league in Canada. They play Canadian football. The CFL is the second most popular sports league in Canada after the NHL. There are 8 teams; 4 in the Eastern Division and 4 Western Division. The Grey Cup is the championship for the CFL.



The Ottawa Renegades have been defunct since the 2006 season, and the Winnipeg Blue Bombers have therefore moved into the Eastern Division until the team is reinstated.


</doc>
<doc id="45439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45439" title="Shorts">
Shorts

Shorts are a sort of trousers or pants worn by both men and women that reach only to the upper part of the legs or more, but do not cover the entire length of the leg. They are worn either as outer garment or as underwear. They are called "shorts" because they are a shortened version of "trousers" (as they are called in British English, or "pants" in American English) which cover the entire leg.

Why people wear shorts:

There are multiple types of shorts:



</doc>
<doc id="45440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45440" title="Swimsuit">
Swimsuit

A swimsuit (also "swimmers"), bathing suit (also "bathers"), aqua jammies or swimming costume (sometimes shortened to "cozzie") is clothing designed to be worn for swimming.
Swimming trunks are a pair of shorts or briefs worn for swimming or bathing.

In New Zealand English and some areas of Australian English, swimsuits are usually called togs. This term is less common in other parts of the Commonwealth where it can also refer to clothes in general. Swimsuits can be skin-tight or loosely fitting and range from garments designed to preserve as much modesty as possible to garments designed to reveal as much of the body as possible without actual nudity. They are often lined with a fabric that prevents them from becoming transparent when wet.


</doc>
<doc id="45443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45443" title="Pangram">
Pangram

Pangrams are sentences that have one or more of every letter in an alphabet. They are used to show every letter in a font, or to test a keyboard or typewriter.

The most common example in English is "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog."


</doc>
<doc id="45444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45444" title="Binary">
Binary

Binary is a way to show whole numbers using only 1 and 0. Computers work in binary.

Binary is a number system and is known as a base 2 system because it uses two characters – 0 and 1. Decimal, the system most of the world uses for daily life, is a base 10 system – it uses 10 characters (0–9).

1101 is an example of a binary number. Here is how to change binary numbers to decimal numbers (base 10, the kind most people use): The value of the bit (binary 1 or 0) on the right side of the number is 1. Every other bit has a value two times the value of the bit to its right. So the place values of the binary number 1101 are 8, 4, 2, and 1. Add the values of every bit that is a 1 together to get the decimal number. Thus the code 1101 converted into decimal number will be 13.

For another example, the binary number 101 is 5 in decimal. The bit on the right is 1 and has a value of 1. The middle bit has a value of 2 (1 times 2), but it is a 0, so it is not added. The bit on the left is 1 and has a value of 4 (2 times 2). The bits that are 1s have values of 1 and 4. 1 + 4 = 5.

All computers use binary at the lowest level. Most computer storage, like compact discs and DVDs, use binary to represent large files.

With computers, eight binary bits together is called a "byte". The size of files is commonly measured in "kilobytes" or "megabytes" (sometimes in "gigabytes"). A kilobyte is 1,024 bytes. A megabyte is 1,024 kilobytes, or 1,048,576 bytes, while a gigabyte is 1,024 megabytes.


</doc>
<doc id="45446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45446" title="Electronic">
Electronic

Electronic could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="45447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45447" title="Great Northern Diver">
Great Northern Diver

The Common Loon or Great Northern Diver is a bird. It belongs to the diver family of birds. Adult birds are between 70 and 90 cm in length, and have wingspans of 1.20 metres to 1.50 metres. 


</doc>
<doc id="45453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45453" title="Limit">
Limit

A limit can be:







</doc>
<doc id="45454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45454" title="Ziziphus mauritiana">
Ziziphus mauritiana

Ziziphus mauritiana (Indian Jujube, or Cottony Jujube) is a type of fruit tree. It is most often found in south-east Asia, usually India.


</doc>
<doc id="45456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45456" title="Category:Beans">
Category:Beans


</doc>
<doc id="45457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45457" title="Azuki Bean">
Azuki Bean

Azuki beans are eaten in many places in the world. Especially, azuki beans are used in sweet meals, snacks and dishes in Japan, China, Korea and Vietnam. Azuki beans have a long and varied history and there are many recipes. 

"Azuki" beans are very famous red beans in Japan. Excavations of Jomon period archaeological sites suggest that people have been eating "Azuki" beans since the Jomon period. And "Azuki" seeds were discovered from excavations of Jomon period. At that time, "Azuki" beans were called ""shozu"". 

"Azuki" beans have been grown since the "Yayoi" period. The first time the word ""Azuki"" was used was in the book ""Koziki"". Old Japanese said ""Aka"" for red. And "Azuki" beans were called ""zuki"" because " Azuki" beans get soft when they are boiled. ""Aka"" plus ""zuki"" is ""Azuki"" and this is the origin of "Azuki" bean's name. Another "Azuki" beans has many origins.

"Azuki" beans are red, so many old people believed "Azuki" beans were a good luck charm. "Azuki" beans were used in many events and ceremonies in Japan, China and Korea. In the "Edo" period, people made rice mixed with "Azuki" 
beans. This was called ""Sekihan"" and many people gave "sekihan" at ceremonies. "Azuki" beans were used as medicine, because "Azuki" beans are nutritious. Now many people eat "sekihan" when there are ceremonies in Japan. In addition "Azuki" beans are used in many Japanese cakes, Many sweets use "Azuki" raw materials for the taste and colour. So "Azuki" beans are closely related to Japanese life from ancient times.

Azuki beans make bean jam. A sweet porridge of boiled and crushed azuki beans are eaten with rice-flour dumplings. Oval-shaped sweets are made from glutinous rice and covered with azuki bean. Bean-jam pancakes and bean-jam filled buns are also popular snacks. Azuki beans are also used in pillows and beanbags.

First, azuki beans are boiled until the azuki skin stretches. The azuki beans are put in the perforated basket. Next, the azuki are boiled again for a short time to remove harshness. The azuki are put into perforated basket to drain. After, a pan is prepared. The azuki are put in the pan. A lid is put on the pan. The azuki beans are steamed and the heat is turned off. The azuki bean mash is dried on cloth. The azuki are taken out of the pan which is hot from flame. Sugar is added. The sugar and azuki is mixed and the water of azuki is left, if the azuki falls down a large spoon dripping, the heat is turned off. Finally, the azuki is cooled. When the azuki is cold, it is finished. 
Azuki bean jam is used in many foods. For example, a fish-shaped waffle is filled with azuki bean jam. Azuki bean jam foods are famous in Japan, and they are eaten by many Japanese.

Azuki. Web. 
Visual guide Meiji. Taisyo. syowa no kurashi. (Meiji mura/ Hiroko Motoyama)

The azuki bean is a type of reddish-brown colored bean. It can also be spelled adzuki. The bean is grown in East Asia and the Himalayas. It is often boiled in sugar to make a red bean paste. This paste is used in Chinese, Korean, and Japanese cooking.


</doc>
<doc id="45459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45459" title="Jalapeño">
Jalapeño

The Jalapeño is a type of pepper. It is related to the family of the Chili pepper. It is pronounced "hala-PANE-nyo" or "hala-PEE-nyo"



</doc>
<doc id="45461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45461" title="Gooseberry">
Gooseberry

The gooseberry is a type of fruit. It has a greenish color. It looks like an ungrown clementine. It belongs to the same family as the currant.


</doc>
<doc id="45463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45463" title="Quince">
Quince

The quince is a fruit that grows on small trees. It is in the same family as apples and pears. It starts green colored and then ripens to a bright golden yellow color, and looks like a bumpy lemon but it is not.

The quince fruit is too hard to eat. It can be cooked to make it soft. Or it can be left out on purpose to rot a little which makes it soft. If it is damaged by frost, that helps start the process of making it soft and good to eat. Quinces are mainly used for making jelly and jam. The interior of a quince is white when it is raw, but it becomes pinkish orange when it is cooked, so that is the color of the jelly or jam when it is made.


</doc>
<doc id="45464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45464" title="Açaí palm">
Açaí palm

The Açaí palm (Assai palm) is a type of palm tree. There are seven different types of Açaí palms. The tree grows in Central and South America. It has a black-purple fruit about the size of a grape called a "euterpe". The seed inside is very big. The fruit grows in bunches of 700 to 900 fruits.

The palms are mainly used for two things: First, salads called palmitos (heart of palm) can be made from the leaves; for this, the tree needs to be cut down. Secondly, the fruits can be made into a fruit juice that is said to be very healthy.



</doc>
<doc id="45466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45466" title="Pomegranate">
Pomegranate

The Pomegranate ("Punica granatum") is a fruit. It has seeds called arils that are covered in an edible red pulp.

The pomegranate was first known in Iran and the Himalayas in northern India and has since been spread to many kinds of dry areas with seasonal rain fall. Its Hindi name is "anar".


</doc>
<doc id="45471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45471" title="Pole">
Pole

Pole could mean:






</doc>
<doc id="45473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45473" title="Punt (boat)">
Punt (boat)

A punt is a flat boat with a broad front, designed for use in small rivers or other shallow water.
Punting means boating in a punt. The punter pushes a pole against the river bed and this gives the punt a way to move.

Punts were originally built as cargo boats or platforms, for shooting at birds and fishing, but in modern times they are mostly used for pleasure trips on the rivers in the university towns of Oxford and Cambridge in England, and are raced at summer regattas on the Thames. 

Poles for pleasure punts are normally made of spruce, or aluminium. A normal pole is about 12–16 feet (4–5 m) long and weighs about 10 lb (5 kg). In Oxford and Cambridge 16 ft long poles are sometimes used.

The bottom of the pole is fitted with a metal "shoe", a rounded lump of metal to protect the end — the shoe is sometimes made in the shape of a swallow tail.






</doc>
<doc id="45477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45477" title="Horizontal">
Horizontal

Horizontal is a type of line used in life:


</doc>
<doc id="45480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45480" title="Moat">
Moat

A moat is a body of water around a castle or town to keep out bad people. At first, moats were simple and used only for protection. Later on, moats became more complex and decorative.

Moats are deep, wide ditches filled with water. They were usually built near sources of water that flowed into the moats, filling them with water. The moats were filled with water for a few reasons. It made enemies swimming across the moat easy targets. It also made it impossible for enemies to dig underneath the castle walls, which was a common method of attack. It also prevented fires from destroying the castle. 

The word "moat" comes from the French word "motte", which means hill. Moats were first used in the Medieval period, from 1066 to 1154. Castles were built on the top of high hills. The area at the bottom of the hill was eventually called the moat. 

Castle moats were usually between 3 and 30 feet deep, and they were not always filled with water. Some moats, called dry moats, were instead filled with sharp pieces of wood called bungy sticks.

In many stories, moats are filled with alligators or crocodiles. This is a myth. However, moats were sometimes filled with fish or eels for food.


</doc>
<doc id="45485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45485" title="Filter (internet)">
Filter (internet)

A filter is a website feature that removes some kinds of content. This can be to stop the user viewing the unwanted content. It can also be to stop the user posting content the site does not want. Internet filters most often work by stopping certain words being used. Filters to stop other content, such as certain kinds of pictures, can also be used. A filter can be used to only stop a certain kind of user seeing the content, children for example.

Filters are very common in e-mail systems. Online games, usually children's games, sometimes have filters. Wikis have filters, too.

In the USA, there is a filter used with TV called the V-chip. Sometimes parents use it when they want to control what their children are allowed to watch.

The items that a filter might be used to remove can include:



</doc>
<doc id="45486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45486" title="Online">
Online

Online means on the internet. For example, games like Webkinz are online. Wikipedia is online, also.

Online can also mean that something is set up correctly and ready to what it is susposed to do. For example:


If something is not online, it is offline.


</doc>
<doc id="45491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45491" title="Snowman">
Snowman

A snowman is a statue of a person made of snow. Snowmen are usually made when people make three balls of snow that are different sizes. They will stack the balls on top of each other to make a snowman, and stick some things in it to make it look more like a person.


</doc>
<doc id="45493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45493" title="Sand castle">
Sand castle

Sand castles are castles made of sand and water. People have taken making sand castles and turned it into an type of art called sand sculpture. Sand castles are often made on a sandy beach or in a sandpit.


</doc>
<doc id="45496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45496" title="Utility pole">
Utility pole

A utility pole, telegraph pole, telephone pole, power pole, or telegraph post is a post or pole upon which telephone network equipment is situated. Similar poles are often used for electricity cables (with pylons being used for only the higher voltage applications) and frequently a pole will share both power and communications lines. Telegraph poles first became commonplace in the middle 19th century. At first they had only one wire, then in urban areas many. In Canada, the poles are commonly referred to as hydro poles, as the electric companies commonly have "Hydro" in their name.

Utility poles are usually wooden, but vary greatly from nation to nation. Other common utility pole materials are steel and concrete, with composites (fibreglass) becoming used more often. In some countries, for example the UK, poles have sets of brackets arranged in a standard pattern up the pole to act as hand and foot holds for those working on the equipment or connections atop the pole.



</doc>
<doc id="45497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45497" title="Upstaging">
Upstaging

If a person upstages another person it means that he or she makes an audience pay attention to him or her instead of to the other person. The word comes from the theatre but it can also be used for situations outside the theatre.

To understand what "upstaging" means: imagine a man and a woman on a stage in the theatre. The man is talking or singing to the woman. The man is standing stage centre (in the middle of the stage). The woman is standing downstage (the part of the stage near the audience). Because she is facing the man she has her back to the audience. The man is facing the audience. Dramatically he is in a strong position. The audience is watching him.

Now the woman starts to walk upstage (towards the back of the stage). This means that the man, who is still talking or singing to her, has to turn his back to the audience in order to face the woman. The woman is now in a strong position dramatically while the man looks silly. The woman has upstaged the man.

Sometimes actors do deliberately upstage another actor. This is, of course, a very unkind thing to do and it is very unprofessional behaviour.

Sometimes we might talk about upstaging even if it is not in the theatre. Imagine a speaker who is talking to an audience. A little dog comes along and starts to do funny things that makes the audience laugh. They are not listening to the speaker any more. The dog has upstaged the speaker.


</doc>
<doc id="45500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45500" title="Category:Human communication">
Category:Human communication


</doc>
<doc id="45501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45501" title="Category:Animal communication">
Category:Animal communication


</doc>
<doc id="45505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45505" title="Pylon">
Pylon

A pylon or transmission tower (also known as an ironman in Australia and a hydro tower in parts of Canada) is a tall structure, usually a steel lattice tower, used to support overhead electricity conductors for electric power transmission.


</doc>
<doc id="45507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45507" title="High School Musical">
High School Musical

High School Musical is a 2006 Disney television movie movie, starring Zac Efron, Vanessa Anne Hudgens, Ashley Tisdale, Corbin Bleu, Monique Coleman and Lucas Grabeel. Its sequel is "High School Musical 2".

The story is about two high school students, Troy Bolton, who is captain of his school's basketball team, and Gabriella Montez, a shy new student who is good in mathematics and science. Together, they try out for the lead parts in their high school musical. Despite other students' attempts to foil their dreams, Troy and Gabriella persist and inspire others along the way. They also make new friends.



</doc>
<doc id="45508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45508" title="Redcurrant">
Redcurrant

A Redcurrant ("Ribes rubrum") is a type of fruit. It is related to the Blackcurrant. They are in the same genus "Ribes". They can be found growing in the wild in western Europe (France, Belgium, Netherlands, Germany and northern Italy).


</doc>
<doc id="45509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45509" title="Alex Trebek">
Alex Trebek

Alex Trebek (George Alexander Trebek) is a Canadian-American television game show host. He is best known as the host of "Jeopardy!". He was born July 22, 1940 in Ontario, Canada. In 2011, He snapped his Acules tenden while trying to stop a robber(trying to rob his San Francisco apartment).


</doc>
<doc id="45511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45511" title="Clementine">
Clementine

A clementine is a type of citrus fruit. It has a bright orange rind. They have a diameter of about 3 to 5 inches. Clementines are easy to peel and have no seeds. They are grown in California, and are usually available from November to January.

They were more popular outside the United States than inside, but in 1997, there were not many Florida oranges available because it was very cold. People bought clementines instead, which made them more popular . They are still popular today.

Clementines are popular in the winter months. They are usually found in wooden crates in the supermarket. A popular clemintine brand is called, Cuties.

They are named after a French monk, Père Clément Rodier, who lived in North Africa at the beginning of the 20th century. He either found a natural mutation of the mandarin orange, which he grew, or he created a hybrid of the mandarin and the Seville oranges. The fruit, however, may have originated long before in Asia.


</doc>
<doc id="45512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45512" title="Category:Citrus">
Category:Citrus


</doc>
<doc id="45514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45514" title="Ugli fruit">
Ugli fruit

An ugli is a type of citrus fruit. It is related to the lemon family.



</doc>
<doc id="45559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45559" title="Duralumin">
Duralumin

Duralumin is an alloy made up of 90% aluminum, 4% copper, 0.5–1% magnesium, and less than 1% manganese.
It is an extremely hard alloy that is used, for example, in vehicle armour in the defense industry.



</doc>
<doc id="45562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45562" title="Mango">
Mango

A mango is a type of fruit. It is found almost anywhere, but is thought to come from the southern and southeast Asian continent including India, Pakistan, Burma, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. Pakistan and India share the major export market of mangoes. It is also their "national fruit". 
Ripe mangoes are very sweet in taste but they are bitterly sour before they ripen. There are varieties of mangoes found in India: Langra, Dussheri, Chausa, Tota, Safadi, Alphonso are types of mangoes which are generally found in various parts of India at different time.


</doc>
<doc id="45564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45564" title="Shuttlecock">
Shuttlecock

A shuttlecock is used in the sport badminton. The shuttlecock center is hit with a badminton racquet over the net, in this fast sport. A shuttlecock is also called a shuttle. Other names for shuttlecock are bird, or birdie, because it can be made with feathers.

Shuttlecocks can be made of many types of materials, including plastic and feathers. It creates a cone shape, and is held together by a round center, usually made of cork or rubber. The cone shape the feathers, or other materials create is called a shuttlecock skirt.

In North America and Europe, feather shuttlecocks cost more. In Asia, where the prices of feathers are lower, shuttles made of plastic are rarely used; feather shuttles are used.

It is harder to hit a feather shuttlecock fast, because there is more drag. They are also less durable than plastic shuttles. Experienced badminton players usually play with feather shuttlecocks, and in competition, badminton is almost always played with feather shuttles. They feel that feather shuttles give them more control, and better play is needed to hit feather shuttles. 

In school gyms and amateur/beginner clubs in Europe and North America, plastic shuttlecocks are more often used than feather ones. This is to save feathers, since plastic shuttlecocks do not break easily. Feathers on the feather shuttles bend or break if the player does not hit the cork or rubber center. 


</doc>
<doc id="45567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45567" title="Janne Da Arc">
Janne Da Arc

Janne Da Arc is a Japanese rock band. Janne Da Arc made their first appearance in the music world on April 17, 1998. Its members are vocalist Yasu, guitarist You, bassist Ka-Yu, keyboardist Kiyo and drummer Shuji.



</doc>
<doc id="45571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45571" title="Olive (disambiguation)">
Olive (disambiguation)

Olive can mean the things below:



</doc>
<doc id="45573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45573" title="Olive (fruit)">
Olive (fruit)

The olive ("Olea europaea") is the fruit of the olive tree or "oliver". It is an important food crop in Italy, Spain and especially in Greece among other countries around the Mediterranean. It is naturally very bitter, but after a long time in salt, it becomes a tasty and healthy food (though very fatty - it is one of the fattiest cooking oils in use, even more than palm, canola and other vegetable oils). Olive oil is the juice made by crushing olives. In Roman literature, the olive branch is used as a symbol of peace: "extending the olive branch". In Christianity, too, it is seen as a symbol of peace, because according to the Bible, a dove brought an olive branch to Noah to show that the flood was over. Lots of important writers and illustrators use olive branches around text to give it a greater artistic credit (a similar effect is achieved with wheat). 


</doc>
<doc id="45575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45575" title="Star Trek: Voyager">
Star Trek: Voyager

Star Trek: Voyager was the fourth television series based in the "Star Trek" universe. It features a starship, "Voyager", lost on the other side of the galaxy. It also has the first important female ship's captain.


</doc>
<doc id="45585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45585" title="Killamery">
Killamery

Killamery is a village in Kilkenny, Ireland. It was the site of a monastery which was built in about 632 and has a High Cross.



</doc>
<doc id="45588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45588" title="Category:English athletes">
Category:English athletes


</doc>
<doc id="45592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45592" title="Category:Boxing">
Category:Boxing


</doc>
<doc id="45597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45597" title="Template:SchoolIP">
Template:SchoolIP

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="45599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45599" title="Speed limit">
Speed limit

A speed limit is a legal limit on how fast a person can make their road vehicle go. Some roads have also have a minimum speed limit, which is how slow a vehicle is allowed to travel.

In the United Kingdom, the speed limit in towns is usually 30 miles per hour, and the speed limit on dual carriageways and motorways is usually 70 miles per hour. In France, the speed limit on motorways is usually 130 kilometres per hour, which is approximately 80 miles per hour. Also, in United States, most highways are from 65 to 70 miles per hour, and freeways are from 55 to 80 miles per hour. In Canada, the speed limit is usually about 100 kmh. In Australia the speed limit on freeways is between 100 and 120 kilometres per hour, and in towns and cities between 40 and 60 kph.


</doc>
<doc id="45608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45608" title="Pure Pwnage">
Pure Pwnage

Pure Pwnage is an Internet video series. It is about a man named Jeremy who spends his days playing video games and making fun of other people, or as he calls them, "n00bs". The first season of the show had 12 episodes. The people who make the show are planning to make at least two more seasons and maybe a full length movie. The first season ends with a cliffhanger that leads into the second season. The second season is expected to be put online in 2007.

The show started when two friends got together and made a short video of the main character talking about video games. Inspired by the cultural phenomenon that online video gaming has become, and the series creators' personal online experiences; the series actually spawned from a project for film school. After they uploaded the video onto the Internet, it got downloaded a few thousand times, so they made "Episode 1: Life of a Pro Gamer". The character 'Jeremy'(Played by Jarett Cale), also known as 'teh_pwnerer', was designed to comically represent, and almost stereotype, online gamers around the world. This concept was based loosely around the idea of a person who had grown up doing nothing but online gaming; whose entire vocabulary and social mannerisms were molded solely by internet interactions. As such, the episode was supposed to be a mockumentary of sorts, as Jeremy is followed and filmed by younger brother 'Kyle'(Geoff Lapaire) (Played depicting "A day in the life of a ProGamer". After this became very popular, they made episodes 2 and 3. When episode 4 was downloaded roughly 3000 times, they decided that they should pursue this full-time. Throughout the series, the characters make use of many expressions in videogame termanology, including "noob", "uber-micro" and ofcourse "pwnage".

The series has introduced several other recurring characters, such as:

The series has also adopted a dynamic storyline in favour of its original, pseudo-casual style of interviews. Despite the additional casting and switch towards plot driven episodes, the series remains true to its satirical view of current trends in the gaming industry and the greater online community. The series has quickly developed a large fan base, spanning across multiple continents, and only continues in its success as its 2nd season comes to a close.



</doc>
<doc id="45611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45611" title="Template:User th-3">
Template:User th-3


</doc>
<doc id="45612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45612" title="Template:User th-2">
Template:User th-2


</doc>
<doc id="45613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45613" title="Template:User th-1">
Template:User th-1


</doc>
<doc id="45615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45615" title="Support">
Support

Support may mean the following:



</doc>
<doc id="45627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45627" title="West Africa">
West Africa

West Africa or Western Africa is the west part of the Africa. According to the United Nations (UN), West Africa has about seventeen countries:




</doc>
<doc id="45628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45628" title="Template:Col-begin">
Template:Col-begin


</doc>
<doc id="45630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45630" title="Template:Col-break">
Template:Col-break


</doc>
<doc id="45631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45631" title="Template:Col-end">
Template:Col-end


</doc>
<doc id="45639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45639" title="Nun">
Nun

Nun is a woman who made a special vow (or promise) dedicating herself to a religious life. Roman Catholic nuns are the most commonly thought of nuns, but nuns are found in different forms of Christianity as well as non-Christian religions such as Buddhism. A nun is the female version of a monk.


"This can be made longer. You can help Wikipedia by [ adding to it]."


</doc>
<doc id="45642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45642" title="List of Formula One World Drivers' Champions">
List of Formula One World Drivers' Champions

The Formula One World Drivers' Championship (WDC) is the most successful Formula One race car driver of the year. The award is given by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) to the driver who scores the most points during a season.

The WDC was first awarded in 1950, to Giuseppe "Nino" Farina. The first driver to win more then one Championship was Alberto Ascari, in 1952 and 1953. The latest driver awarded the championship is called the "reining" or "defending" champion. As of the end of the 2010 season, the reining champion is Sebastian Vettel.

The FIA does not officially award the Championship until the end of the season. Sometimes one driver will be far ahead of the other drivers in points. Even if the leading driver scores no more points, none of the other drivers could pass his point total. When this happens, the driver is said to have "clinched" the Championship.

Active drivers are in bold.


Constructors still active in Formula One are in bold.

Active drivers are in bold.

Active drivers are in bold.

Active drivers are in bold.




</doc>
<doc id="45644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45644" title="Henry I the Fowler">
Henry I the Fowler

Henry I the Fowler (German: "Heinrich der Finkler" or "Heinrich der Vogler"; Latin: "Henricius Auceps") (876–2 July 936) was the duke of Saxony from 912 and king of the Germans from 919 until his death. He was the first of the Ottonian Dynasty of German kings and emperors and therefore he is generally considered to be the founder and first king of the medieval German state, that was known until then as East Francia. As he was an eager hunter, he was called "the Fowler" (someone who hunts wildfowl) because it was said he was fixing birding nets when messengers arrived to inform him that he was to be king.


</doc>
<doc id="45647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45647" title="Propeller">
Propeller

A propeller makes an aircraft, ship, or submarine in water or air go by making a big wind or a strong stream. It does this by turning two or more wings very quick. The blades of a propeller act as rotating wings, and produce force through application of both Bernoulli's principle and Newton's third law, generating a difference in pressure between the forward and rear surfaces of the airfoil-shaped blades.



</doc>
<doc id="45648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45648" title="Fluid">
Fluid

A fluid is a substance that can easily move and change shape such as water (liquids), or air (gases), or plasmas. They can 'flow'- flow and fluids both come from the same English word roots and are pronounced similarly.

Fluids usually take on the shape of the objects that they touch, in contrast to solids which maintain their own shape.

Some things are not exactly fluid and not exactly solid, such as Silly Putty. Powders are made of solid bits but can flow, particularly if you shake them.

If you cool a fluid down enough it eventually becomes solid.


</doc>
<doc id="45650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45650" title="Ebony">
Ebony

Ebony can mean many things:



</doc>
<doc id="45651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45651" title="Shelter">
Shelter

A shelter is a place where someone or something is put in or goes to be kept safe or hidden. It can also be any place where people live that "shelters" (s) them from any danger such as the weather.

There are different kinds of shelters and they are for used for different reasons.

Currently, Women's Shelters are found around the United States, United Kingdom, and many other First World countries. In these places, women are there to hide or are running away from abusive or dangerous situations. In these shelters, they are given food and a place to stay for an amount of time (usually 1-3 months at a time). They are put into a support group and given a counselor. There is a high success rate in this type of place. 


</doc>
<doc id="45653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45653" title="Category:Snow">
Category:Snow


</doc>
<doc id="45656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45656" title="Category:Rosaceae">
Category:Rosaceae

Rosaceae is a Biological grouping that includes the subgroups Cherries, Fragaria, Hybrid prunus, Maloideae, Potentilla, Roses and Rubus.


</doc>
<doc id="45657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45657" title="Zaiger's Genetics">
Zaiger's Genetics

Zaiger's Genetics is an American company that breeds fruit trees. They are located in Modesto, California. They have created fruits such as the Aprium (apricot and plum), the Nectarcot (nectarine and apricot), Peacotum (peach, apricot and plum) and the pluot (plum and apricot).

They are a family dedicated to improving fruit worldwide. The family story can be found here:

http://www.davewilson.com/z_file/zaiger_intro.html

In 2009 he was named one of THE TOP TEN MOST CREATIVE PEOPLE IN FOOD by Fast Company 

Zaiger's Genetics gives fruit tours to commercial growers every Wednesday and an article in Western Fruit Grower titled "Wednesdays With Floyd" described a typical Wednesday with the Zaiger family.

</doc>
<doc id="45659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45659" title="Almond">
Almond

The almond is a small tree in the family Rosaceae. The tree makes nuts or fruits that are also called almonds. Within the genus "Prunus", it is classified in the subgenus "Amygdalus". "Amygdalus" is told apart from other subgenera by the wavy seed shell. Botanically, the almond seed or fruit is not a true nut, but a drupe. it is the unofficial territory tree of Gilgit-Baltistan.

The almond is a small tree. It grows from four and 10 meters tall. It has a trunk 30 centimetres wide. The young twigs are green at first, but they become purple when sunlight goes on them. When they are in their second year, they turn gray. The leaves are three to five inches long. The flowers are white or light pink, 3–5 cm wide with five petals.



</doc>
<doc id="45660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45660" title="Prunus">
Prunus

Prunus is a genus of plants in the family Rosaceae. It includes plums, peaches, almonds, apricots and cherries.


</doc>
<doc id="45661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45661" title="Yellow Avens">
Yellow Avens

Yellow Avens is a type of flowering plant It is found in the warmer areas of North America, Asia and Europe. It is 1 meter (3 feet) tall. 



</doc>
<doc id="45662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45662" title="Crabapple">
Crabapple

A crabapple is a fruit. It is in the same Genus as the apple. It is much smaller and it only has 8 calories. They are in the family Rosaceae.



</doc>
<doc id="45663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45663" title="Water Avens">
Water Avens

Water Avens are a flowering plant. These flowers are small. They live in or near water.


</doc>
<doc id="45667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45667" title="Ume">
Ume

An Ume ("Prunus mume") is a type of Korean and Japanese plum of the family Rosaceae. It starts out as a white flower like an almond. It is also native to China but it is not called "ume" in Chinese.


</doc>
<doc id="45669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45669" title="Filipendula">
Filipendula

Filipendula is a family of 12 flowering plants in the family Rosaceae. Their flowers are mostly white. These plants are adapted to moist woodland conditions with partial shade preferred.


</doc>
<doc id="45670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45670" title="Mountain-mahogany">
Mountain-mahogany

Mountain-mahogany is a family of 6 types of shrub. They are found in the United States and Mexico in very dry areas. They usually grow three to six meters tall but can get as tall as 13 meters. 
Mountain-mahogany is an extremely important upland forage for New Mexico Mule Deer and to a lesser extent American Elk.


</doc>
<doc id="45672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45672" title="Dryas (plant)">
Dryas (plant)

Dryas or Mountain Avens is a type of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.


</doc>
<doc id="45674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45674" title="Acaena">
Acaena

Acaena is a group of shrubs. They are in the family of Rosaceae.


</doc>
<doc id="45675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45675" title="The Yellow Rose of Texas (flower)">
The Yellow Rose of Texas (flower)

The Yellow Rose of Texas (Harison's Yellow) is a flower in the family Rosaceae. It is a type of yellow rose. It is often found around homes in the American state of Texas and along trails in the state of Oregon. It is also called the Oregon Trail Rose

Also mentioned in country songs such as "Solid Country Gold" by Shooter Jennings and "Texas Pride" by Miranda Lambert.


</doc>
<doc id="45676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45676" title="Ya pear">
Ya pear

The Ya pear or Chinese white pear is a type of pear. It is found in northern China, where it is grown for food. These are very delicately crunchy, juicy, white to light yellow pears. They taste like a mixture of a rose and a pineapple.

Ya pears can be found in shops outside China. In these shops they are called Asian pears or Chinese pears.


</doc>
<doc id="45679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45679" title="D'Anjou">
D'Anjou

D'Anjou (or poire d'Anjou) is a type fruit in the family Rosaceae. It is a type of pear that first came from Anjou,France. D'Anjou pears usually cost less than other types of pears , but are not as sweet. There are two main varieties of D'Anjou:



</doc>
<doc id="45680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45680" title="Roseraie de L'Haÿ">
Roseraie de L'Haÿ

Roseraie du Val-de-Marne is a garden of roses. It was created in 1899 in L'Haÿ-les-Roses, Val-de-Marne, France. It is said to be the first garden created only for roses.

Roseraie du Val-de-Marne has 13,100 rose bushes of 3200 different kinds of roses. The garden has modern French and foreign roses on one side, the formal rose garden with a reflecting pool in the center, and the old garden roses and classic roses on the other side.



</doc>
<doc id="45690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45690" title="Monochrome">
Monochrome

Monochrome comes from the two Greek words "mono" (meaning "one") and "chroma" (meaning "surface" or "the colour of the skin"). If something is monochromatic, it only has a single color.

In physics, the word is used when talking about electromagnetic radiation of a single wavelength. 

For an image, the term monochrome usually means the same as black-and-white or grayscale. It may also be used when talking about other combinations that only have two colors, for example, green-and-white or green-and-black. In computing, monochrome has two meanings:



</doc>
<doc id="45693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45693" title="Semitone">
Semitone

A semitone 
(British English) (also called a half step or a half tone) is the smallest musical interval used in Western music.. It is the distance between two notes which are next to one another in pitch. 

A whole tone means a distance of two semitones, i.e. the distance between two notes which are separated by one other note in pitch. 

This is easy to see with a picture of a keyboard. The distance between two white notes that are side by side may be a whole tone (if there is a black note in between them) or a semitone (if there is no black note between).

To go from a C to a C sharp (or D flat) is a semitone.

To go from a C sharp (or D flat) to a D is a semitone.

To go from a C to a D is a tone.

An octave is divided into twelve semitones. These semitones are exactly equal in size.




</doc>
<doc id="45702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45702" title="Vaud">
Vaud

Vaud is a canton of Switzerland. It borders the cantons of Geneva, Neuchâtel, Fribourg, Berne and Valais (west to east). The capital city is Lausanne. About 650,000 people live in the canton. Of these, about 125,000 live in Lausanne. About 82% of the population speak French as their first language.

Since 1803, the canton of Vaud has been formed out of 19 districts:



</doc>
<doc id="45705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45705" title="Malvern, Worcestershire">
Malvern, Worcestershire

Malvern is a town in Worcestershire, England. It is an old Victorian town which was built around its famous water. It has a population of 28,749. It is home to the famous Malvern Hills, and was the birth place of the composer Sir Edward Elgar. 



</doc>
<doc id="45714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45714" title="Airfoil">
Airfoil

An airfoil (in American English, or aerofoil in British English) is the shape of a wing or blade (of a propeller or ship's screw or sail) as seen in cross-section. It is passed through a fluid in order to provide either lift or downforce, depending on what it is used for. 


</doc>
<doc id="45720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45720" title="Silly Putty">
Silly Putty

Silly Putty (originally called nutty putty) is a silicone plastic "clay", sold as a toy for children by "Binney & Smith Inc.". It was created as a scientific accident when scientists in the United States were trying to find a replacement for rubber during World War II.

Silly Putty is sold as a 0.47 oz (13 g) piece of plastic clay inside an egg-shaped plastic container. It is an example of an inorganic plastic (polymer). It has many unusual characteristics. When pressed on comics or other newspaper pages, the loose ink transfers to the Silly Putty, which is then able to be stretched out. It bounces, showing its rubber qualities. It breaks when you give it a sharp blow. It can flow like a liquid when it is slowly stretched and will "melt" into a puddle over a long enough period of time, and so shows properties of non-newtonian liquids.



</doc>
<doc id="45732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45732" title="Maloideae">
Maloideae

The Maloideae (which is a Latin plural form) is a traditional name for a subfamily of plants in the rose family (Rosaceae). These plants are shrubs and small trees. The most well known Maloideae are apples and pears. Recently it has been shown that the Maloideae are a part of the traditional subfamily Spiraeoideae, and most botanists no longer use the name Maloideae.


</doc>
<doc id="45733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45733" title="Rowan">
Rowan

A Rowan is a type of fruit-bearing plant in the family Rosaceae. They grow in the cooler areas of Europe and Asia. The fruit is a 4-8 mm diameter ball. It is bright orange or red in most species, but pink, yellow or white in some Asian species. The fruit are soft and juicy.


</doc>
<doc id="45736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45736" title="Fragaria × vescana">
Fragaria × vescana

Fragaria × vescana is a plant in the family Rosaceae. It is a type of strawberry. It is a mix between a Beach Strawberry and a Strawberry that is normal.


</doc>
<doc id="45743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45743" title=".htaccess">
.htaccess

.htaccess is a type of computer file for the configuring some web servers. .htaccess files can be used to create custom error pages, or to prevent visitors from directly linking pictures, also known as hot-linking to their own sites, costing the website owner money.

A .htaccess file is put onto the website, so that people will not be able to go onto the URL of the image (picture) (example: <nowiki>www.website.com/image.filetype</nowiki>). Owners can replace this picture, after they upload the file, with a message, or it can be made to redirect to an error page.

By default, MediaWiki uses <nowiki>http://www.example.org/index.php/Main_Page</nowiki> type of URL to display the main page. But by changing the .htaccess and LocalSettings.php, it can display URLs like <nowiki>http://www.example.org/wiki/Main_Page</nowiki> so that it will look nicer (like Wikipedia).

By default, all posts made in Wordpress uses <nowiki>http://www.example.org/?p=123</nowiki> to display posts. But it can be changed into URLs like <nowiki>http://www.example.org/2010/06/postname</nowiki> in .htaccess and the permalink setting in the site admin of that blog.


</doc>
<doc id="45745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45745" title="Butcher">
Butcher

A butcher is person whose job is to prepare and sell meat. Some butchers also kill the animals the meat is from. Butchers also prepare sausages, and other meat-products.


</doc>
<doc id="45747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45747" title="Hot-linking">
Hot-linking

Hot-linking is a term used on the Internet. Hot-linking is when someone uses a link to an image that is saved on another website instead of saving a copy of the image on the website that the picture will be shown on. For example, instead of saving picture.gif and loading it on to their own website, the person uses a link to the picture as "<nowiki>http://website.com/picture.gif</nowiki>". Hot-linking uses the bandwidth of the person who owns the website where the picture is stored. This costs that person money. This is why many website owners are using .htaccess files and uploading it to their websites.In some cases website owners use the .htaccess file to replace any hot-linked images with an offensive image to deter any other website owners from hot-linking.
It can also be used for files and or website links.


</doc>
<doc id="45751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45751" title="Mount Adams (Washington)">
Mount Adams (Washington)

Mount Adams is the second-highest mountain in the Pacific Northwest of North America. It is a volcano in the Cascade Range. Adams is located about 35 miles (56 km) east of Mount St. Helens.



</doc>
<doc id="45752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45752" title="Dazaifu">
Dazaifu

Dazaifu is a city in the Japanese prefecture of Fukuoka. It has a population of 67,428. The city was founded on April 1, 1982, but it has been important historically for around a thousand years.


</doc>
<doc id="45760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45760" title="Nuclear power">
Nuclear power

Nuclear power is the controlled use of nuclear energy. Nuclear energy is energy in uranium that can be released by nuclear reactions in a machine called a nuclear reactor. This energy is made into electricity, which then can be used to power machines and heat homes. In 2007, 14% of the world's electricity came from nuclear power. Nuclear power plants also make radioactive waste that could be harmful if it is not stored properly.

Enrico Fermi made the first nuclear reactor in 1941. Many reactors were built in the U.S. during World War II during the Manhattan Project. In 1954 the first nuclear power plant started in Obninsk near Moscow. Most nuclear power plants in the U.S. were built during the 1960s and 1970s. Nuclear reactors also power some large military ships and submarines.

Some serious nuclear accidents have occurred. A scale was made to measure how dangerous accidents are. It is called International Nuclear Event Scale. The scale has 8 levels (0-7), and 7 is the worst.

Nuclear-powered submarine mishaps include the Soviet submarine K-19 reactor accident (1961), the Soviet submarine K-27 reactor accident (1968), and the Soviet submarine K-431 reactor accident (1985).

The economics of nuclear power is challenging, and following the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, costs are likely to go up for currently operating and new nuclear power plants, due to increased requirements for on-site spent fuel management and elevated design basis threats.

There is a debate about the use of nuclear power. Supporters, such as the World Nuclear Association and IAEA, think that nuclear power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions. Anti-nuclear opponents, such as Greenpeace International and NIRS, believe that nuclear power poses threats to people and the environment.

In 2007, nuclear power plants made some 2600 TWh of electricity and provided 14 percent of the electricity used in the world, which represented a fall of 2 per cent compared with 2006. As of May 9, 2010, there were 438 (372 GW) nuclear reactors operating globally. A peak was reached in 2002 when there were 444 nuclear reactors operating. 

The nuclear emergencies at Japan's Fukushima I Nuclear Power Station and other nuclear facilities raised questions about the future of nuclear power. Platts has said that "the crisis at Japan's Fukushima nuclear plants has prompted leading energy-consuming countries to review the safety of their existing reactors and cast doubt on the speed and scale of planned expansions around the world". Following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035.


</doc>
<doc id="45761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45761" title="Template:!-">
Template:!-


</doc>
<doc id="45762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45762" title="Category:Characteristics">
Category:Characteristics

Characteristics are what something is like; like the "fuzzy" baby duck.


</doc>
<doc id="45763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45763" title="Software versioning">
Software versioning

Software Versioning is a way to tell the different states of Computer software apart. Computer software has different states in its development process. Each state in the process is given a unique Version. Versions are either names, dates, or they can be done as some other form of numbering. Sometimes these states are also called "revisions". 

Many times, after a program has been made, things called "patches" can be downloaded from the program's website. The patches will make small changes or fixes to the main program. When a patch is used, the program is advanced to the next version. For example, a computer game is first at version 1.0 when it is released. Later, the player may download a patch, which changes the game to version 1.1, 1.01, or something similar to that. 


</doc>
<doc id="45766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45766" title="Template:Infobox Software">
Template:Infobox Software

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="45767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45767" title="Template:!!">
Template:!!


</doc>
<doc id="45769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45769" title="Sympathy">
Sympathy

Sympathy exists when the feelings or emotions of one person lead to similar feelings in another person so that they share feeling. Mostly sympathy means the sharing of unhappiness or suffering, but it can also mean sharing other (positive) emotions. In a broader sense, it can refer to the sharing of political or ideological sentiments, such as in the phrase "a communist sympathiser".

The psychological state of sympathy is closely linked with that of empathy, but is not identical to it. Empathy refers to the ability to perceive and directly experientially feel another person's emotions as they feel them, but makes no statement as to how they are viewed. 

Sympathy, by contrast, implies a degree of equal feeling, that is, the sympathiser views the matter similarly to how the person themselves does. It thus implies concern, or care or a wish to reduce negative feelings others are experiencing.



</doc>
<doc id="45770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45770" title="Puddle">
Puddle

A puddle is a small mass of liquid, usually water, uncontained on a surface. It can form either in depressions in the surface, or directly upon the flat surface, held together by surface tension. A puddle is generally considered to be small enough to step over or shallow enough to walk through, and too small to traverse with a boat. 

Puddles commonly form during rainstorms, and can cause problems for transport, especially when combined with cold conditions to form patches of ice, which are highly slippery and difficult to see.


</doc>
<doc id="45772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45772" title="Beam (structure)">
Beam (structure)

A beam is an element that carries load. 

Beams generally carry vertical forces, but can also be used to carry horizontal loads (Those loads can result from wind or an earthquake). The loads that a beam carries are led to columns or walls, which lead the force to the next element.

Beams are characterized by their (their shape), their length, and their material. In constructions of today beams are mostly made of steel, reinforced concrete, or wood. 


</doc>
<doc id="45774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45774" title="Load">
Load

Load may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="45779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45779" title="Organ (music)">
Organ (music)

In music, an organ is a keyboard instrument which makes sound by forcing air through pipes. They are common instruments in churches, and sometimes appear in theatres, especially older movie theatres or cinemas. A person who plays the organ is called an organist.

Types of organs:


</doc>
<doc id="45782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45782" title="Twin">
Twin

Twins are two animal (including human) offspring that are born from the same pregnancy.

"Human twins" are two people that shared the uterus during a single pregnancy, and one is normally born quickly after the first. Because of the size of the uterus, multiple pregnancies are less likely to last the full 38 weeks than most single birth pregnancies. On average, they last 35 weeks. This also means about 50% of twins is born prematurely.

Fraternal twins, also known as "non-identical twins" or "dizygotic twins": Two separate ova are fertilized, which each becomes a zygote. The two zygotes grow into two genetically different beings.

Identical twins or "monozygotic twins": A single ovum is fertilized to form one zygote. This zygote later splits, and each half of the zygote becomes a twin. The twins have the same genes.
Semi-identical twins: A single ovum is fertilized by two sperm cells, and splits. The twins have the same genes from their mother's side, but each twin has different genes from their father's side.

There are five variations of twinning that occur commonly in the world. The three most common variations are all fraternal, meaning the two twins are not from the same egg: 
The last two variations are identical twins, which means they come from one single egg that split later: 

Twinning is common in many other animals, such as cats, sheep, and ferrets. Twinning occurs in cattle about 1-4% of the time , and research is underway to improve the odds of twinning, which can be more profitable for the breeder if complications can be sidestepped or managed.


</doc>
<doc id="45783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45783" title="Ceiling">
Ceiling

A ceiling is an overhead interior surface of a room that conceals the underside of the floor or roof structure above. 

Ceiling: Is An Upper limit on what is allowed


</doc>
<doc id="45784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45784" title="Column">
Column

A column in architecture is a vertical element that transmits the weight of the structure above to the structure below. Columns can be either a single piece or several pieces put together. Columns are frequently used to support beams or arches on which the upper parts of walls or ceilings rest. 

Stone columns were already used in the architecture of ancient Egypt as early as 2600 BC. 


</doc>
<doc id="45786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45786" title="Identical twins">
Identical twins

Identical twins are genetically identical: they have the same genes. They are formed by a fertilised egg dividing into two separate individuals, and are always of the same sex. They may be called monozygotic or MZ twins (mono = one; zygote = fertilised egg). They contrast with "fraternal twins", who are formed by two separate eggs fertilised by two separate sperms, and who are not always the same sex (DZ = dizygotic). Both types of twin are carried in the same uterus at the same time, so their birth environment is the same.

Research shows that the frequency of monozygotic twinning is one in 240 births. Fraternal twins are twice as common.

Identical twins are natural clones. Because they carry the same genes (and this can be proved), they may be used to investigate how much heredity contributes to individual people. Studies with twins have been quite interesting. If we make a list of characteristic traits, we find that they vary in how much they owe to heredity. For example:

The way the studies are done is like this. Take a group of identical twins and a group of fraternal twins, and a group of siblings from the population. Measure them for various traits. Do a statistical analysis (such as analysis of variance). This tells you to what extent the trait is inherited. You will find that all those traits which are partly inherited will be significantly more similar in identical twins. 

Studies like this may be carried further, by comparing identical twins brought up together with identical twins brought up in different circumstances. That gives a handle on how much circumstances can alter the outcomes of genetically identical people.

The person who first did twin studies was Francis Galton, Darwin's half-cousin, who was a founder of statistics. His method was to trace twins through their life-history, making many kinds of measurement. Unfortunately, though he knew about mono and dizygotic twins, he did not appreciate the real genetic difference. Twin studies of the modern kind did not appear until the 1920s.

Wilhelm Weinberg made the first estimate of the rate of twinning. Realizing that identical twins would have to be the same sex, while non-identical twins could be either same or opposite sex, Weinberg derived a formula for estimating the frequency of MZ and DZ twins from the ratio of same and opposite sex twins to the total of maternities. Weinberg also estimated that the heritability of twinning itself was close to zero. That means the capacity to have twins is not hereditary.

Twinning is normal in many mammals, such as rats, cats, dogs. Identical twins are normal in a few species, such as the nine-banded armadillo, "Dasypus novemcinctus".

Offspring produced by non-sexual methods, such as parthenogenesis, are identical unless crossing over takes place in the production of eggs.


</doc>
<doc id="45791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45791" title="Keyboard instrument">
Keyboard instrument

A keyboard instrument is an instrument that is played by pressing the keys of a keyboard. In a keyboard, the notes are arranged with naturals (usually white notes) forming the main body of the keyboard, and sharps and flats (usually black notes) placed in cuttings into the upper half of the naturals.

The ways in which the sound is made varies a lot:


In the 17th and 18th centuries, the word "Clavier" was used in Germany to mean any kind of keyboard instrument. Often, the naturals were black and the sharps and flats were white (see picture of harpsichord), but the layout was exactly the same. 
The development of electronic instruments in the 20th century has brought about many different types of electronic keyboard instruments. These include the ondes martenot and the synthesizer.

Nowadays, people often talk about a "keyboard" meaning an electronic keyboard (e.g. “He plays the keyboard”). This word is sometimes as "keyboards".


</doc>
<doc id="45792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45792" title="Category:Keyboard instruments">
Category:Keyboard instruments


</doc>
<doc id="45794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45794" title="Bow (ship)">
Bow (ship)

The bow is the forward part of the hull of a ship or boat, the point that is most forward when the vessel is underway. 
The bow is designed to reduce the resistance of the hull cutting through water and should be tall enough to prevent water from easily washing over the top of it.


</doc>
<doc id="45798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45798" title="Elderberry">
Elderberry

Elder or Elderberry is the name of a several similar types of shrubs. They produce fruit. The fruit is also called elderberries.
If you dye elderberries they make the colour violet


</doc>
<doc id="45800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45800" title="Jambul">
Jambul

Jambul or Jamun or Jamblang ("Syzgium cumini"), Nava Pazham (Tamil) is an evergreen tropical tree in the flowering plant family Myrtaceae, native to India and Indonesia. It is also grown in other areas of southern Asia including Myanmar and Afghanistan. The tree was also introduced to Florida, USA in 1911 by the USDA, and is also now commonly planted in Suriname. In Brazil, where it was introduced from India during Portuguese colonisation, it has spread out in the wild in some places, as many native birds such as thrushes, tanagers and the Great Kiskadee want their fruits. The various names for this fruit are (in Java) plum, jambul, jamun, jaman, black plum, faux pistachier, Indian blackberry, jambol, doowet, jambolan and jambolão. Scientific synonyms include "Syzygium jambolanum, Eugenia cumini" and "Eugenia jambolana".

A fairly fast growing species, it can grow as high as 30 metres, and can live more than 100 years. Its dense foliage provides shade and is grown just for its ornamental value. The wood is strong and water resistant. Because of this it is used in railway sleepers and to install motors in wells. It is sometimes used to make cheap furniture and village dwellings though it is relatively hard to work on.

The Jamun tree starts flowering in March-April. The fragrant flowers of Jamun are small, nearly 5 millimetres in diameter. This is followed by the fruit which appears in May-June and resembles a large berry. The berry is oblong and ovoid. It is green when just appearing, pink when as it matures, and shining crimson black when fully ripe. Another variety comes in white and some people say that it can be used as a medicine. Jamun fruit is a mixture of sweet, slightly sub acid spicy flavour that stands out even after eaten since it turns the tongue into purple color. The fruit is universally accepted to be very good for medicinal purposes, especially diabetics. The seed is also used in various alternative healing systems like Ayurveda, Unani and Chinese medicine for digestive ailments. The leaves and bark are used for controlling blood pressure and gingivitis. Wine and vinegar are also made from the fruit.


</doc>
<doc id="45801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45801" title="Rambutan">
Rambutan

A rambutan is a kind of fruit tree from southeast Asia. It is related to the Lychee. The rambutan is green when not yet ripe. The flesh of the rambutan is white in color, unlike its shell, which is red. It is known for the hairy balls it has. The balls are juicy and sweet, and a bit crunchy. It has a small smooth seed. An average tree grows from 5,000-6,000 + fruit.


</doc>
<doc id="45802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45802" title="Tangerine">
Tangerine

A tangerine is a type of fruit. It is related to the orange, but it is smaller and easier to peel.


</doc>
<doc id="45803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45803" title="Jackfruit">
Jackfruit

Jackfruit (also called ""Jakfruit"") is a type of fruit from India, Bangladesh (National fruit) and Sri Lanka. When a Jackfruit ripens, it changes from green to slightly yellow.



</doc>
<doc id="45804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45804" title="Epitaph Records">
Epitaph Records

Epitaph Records is an American record label. The company mainly deals with punk bands. Epitaph was started by Bad Religion guitarist Brett Gurewitz. Bands that have signed this label are:


The asterisk (*) marks indicate as those who are no longer signed to Epitaph.


</doc>
<doc id="45805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45805" title="Vaccinium arboreum">
Vaccinium arboreum

Vaccinium arboreum (also called sparkleberry or farkleberry) is a species of Vaccinium native to south-eastern United States. They are usually found in southern Virginia west to southeastern Missouri, and south to Florida and eastern Texas.

Vaccinium arboreum is a shrub (rarely a small tree) growing to 3-5 metres (sometimes up to 9 metres) tall. The leaves are evergreen in the south of the range, but deciduous farther north where winters are colder. They are oval-elliptic with an acute apex, 3-7 cm long and 2-4 cm broad, with a smooth or very finely toothed margin. The flowers are white, bell-shaped, 3-4 mm in diameter, with a five-lobed corolla, produced in racemes up to 5 cm long. The fruit is a round dry berry about 6 mm diameter, green at first, black when ripe, edible but bitter and tough.



</doc>
<doc id="45808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45808" title="Vaccinium">
Vaccinium

Vaccinium is a genus of plants. All of these plants are shrubs. They are in the family Ericaceae. The plants grow fruits on them. Well-known species of Vaccinium are blueberries, cranberries and huckleberries.

In total, there are about 450 species, which are found in the cooler parts of the Northern Hemisphere. There are a few tropical species, that grow in places like Madagascar or Hawaii. The plants usually grow in heath landscapes or in forests. 

The larvae of a number of lepidoptera species (moths and butterflies are examples of lepidoptera) grow on these plants.


</doc>
<doc id="45809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45809" title="Cantaloupe">
Cantaloupe

A cantaloupe is a type of fruit. It is a muskmelon that is probably related to the watermelon. There are two types of cantaloupe, European and North American. Cantaloupes range in size from 0.5 to 5.0 kilograms (1.1 to 11 lb).
Cantaloupes are a source of polyphenol antioxidants. These are chemicals which were thought to provide certain health benefits to the cardiovascular and immune systems by regulating the formation of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide is a key chemical in promoting health of the endothelium and prevention of heart attacks. However, recent research has indicated they do not benefit the body. The body already has ways to deal with oxidation.

Cantaloupes also are an excellent source of vitamin C.

Dirty cantaloupes can spread bacteria. In 2011, 21 people died in the United States from cantaloupes having "listeria" bacteria. The bad cantaloupes were traced back from around the country to a single farm in Colorado.


</doc>
<doc id="45810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45810" title="Smash (album)">
Smash (album)

Smash is one of The Offspring's most successful albums. It came out in 1994 under the label Epitaph Records. It contains their famous hit singles such as "Come Out and Play (Keep 'Em Separated)" and "Self Esteem". "Smash" is often credited as one of the best punk rock albums sold in the entire world, and is the best selling album ever made on an independent label.

The album is also one of the albums that started mainstream Pop punk music.

Occasionally on the album, there's a guy who comments on the music, but it is not revealed who.



</doc>
<doc id="45811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45811" title="Category:1994 albums">
Category:1994 albums

Albums released in 1994.


</doc>
<doc id="45812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45812" title="Category:1994 in music">
Category:1994 in music


</doc>
<doc id="45813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45813" title="Ilama (fruit)">
Ilama (fruit)

Ilama is a kind of fruit, and also the name of the tree that it grows on. The trees and fruits can be found in tropical Central America. The name comes from the Spanish tranlsation of the Nahuatl "ilamatzapotl". Its rough translation is 'old woman's sapote'. The name is also applied to a similar fruit, soncoya or cabeza de negro ("A. pupurea") which is cultivated as an alternative to the cherimoya. The soncoya is similar in size to the Ilama but grey brown in color with hard bumps on the surface, and orange flesh that tastes like mango or papaw.

The Ilama fruit is delicious when eaten ripe. It is either eaten on the half-shell or scooped out with a tool. The Ilama is usually chilled when served, it is sometimes served with a little cream and sugar to intensify the flavor, or with a drop of lime or lemon juice to bring in a tart and bitter tinge.


</doc>
<doc id="45814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45814" title="The Offspring (album)">
The Offspring (album)

The Offspring is the debut album by the band of the same title. It was originally on vinyl in 1989 under the label Nemesis Records and it was re-released on CD in 1995 on Epitaph Records.



The song "Beheaded" was co-written by The Offspring and (original drummer) James Lilja.


</doc>
<doc id="45815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45815" title="Category:1989 albums">
Category:1989 albums

Albums released in 1989.


</doc>
<doc id="45816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45816" title="Category:1989 in music">
Category:1989 in music


</doc>
<doc id="45817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45817" title="Category:1991 in music">
Category:1991 in music


</doc>
<doc id="45818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45818" title="Category:1991 albums">
Category:1991 albums

Albums released in 1991.


</doc>
<doc id="45819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45819" title="Apples, Vaud">
Apples, Vaud

Apples is a municipality in Switzerland. It is in Vaud Canton. Vaud Canton has 364 communes in it.


</doc>
<doc id="45821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45821" title="Fukuoka, Fukuoka">
Fukuoka, Fukuoka

Fukuoka is located on the northwest coast of Kyushu at Hakata Bay.

Hakata Bay and the Fukuoka area was the landing site of the Mongol invasions of Japan in 1274 and 1281.

The city was destroying by bombing during the Second World War.



</doc>
<doc id="45822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45822" title="Category:Dwarf planets">
Category:Dwarf planets


</doc>
<doc id="45825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45825" title="Finance">
Finance

Finance is how people study and figure out how people, businesses and groups make and use money. It can mean:


The process of finance is learning how people and groups act in managing their money, and most of all how they manage making money, and making a profit, with spending money, and making a loss.

A group that makes more money than it spends can lend or invest the excess profit. On the other hand, a group that makes less money than it spends can raise money by getting a loan or selling stock, or spending less, or making more money. 

A bank is where many people borrowing money meet people lending money. A bank gets money from lenders, and pays interest. The bank then lends this money to borrowers. Banks allow borrowers and lenders of different sizes to meet. 

Corporate finance is about things like the sale of stock by a company to the public. Stock is ownership in a company, broken up into pieces. The stock gives whoever owns it part ownership in that company. If someone buys one share of XYZ Inc, and the company has 100 shares available, the buyer is 1/100th owner of that company and owns 1/100th (1%) of the profit. 

Finance is used by people, by governments, by businesses, etc., as well as by all kinds of groups.

This is finance for people. It is about: 

Business finance is about finding money for a company's activities. It studies trying to make more profit than loss, and taking good risks for the chance to make more money.
LFC

Financial economics is the study of economics which is important to financial things like changes in price and supply of goods. 

It studies how much risk some actions that a company may take will cause, and how the company should spend its money.

Financial maths is the study of maths for financial markets. Financial maths studies mathematics, mainly statistics.


</doc>
<doc id="45828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45828" title="Governor General of Canada">
Governor General of Canada

The Governor General of Canada is the person who represents Canada's Queen (or King). The Queen of Canada does not spend much time in Canada because she is also the Queen of several other countries.

The Governor General is technically chosen by the Queen and is allowed to use almost all of the Queen's powers. But most of the time neither the Queen nor the Governor General use their powers without advice from the Prime Minister of Canada.



Once in a while the Prime Minister may want something done that the Governor General is not allowed to do on her own. The Prime Minister must then go straight to the Queen, for example for the appointment of 4 or 8 extra Senators to Parliament.

David Lloyd Johnston is the current Governor General of Canada.

As Canada has two official federal languages, the Governor General's title is in both English and French. 

The Governor General's style and title in full is, in , and in 


</doc>
<doc id="45829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45829" title="Noah's Ark">
Noah's Ark

Noah's Ark, according to the book of Genesis (chapters 6–9) in the Bible, was a ship that God instructed Noah to build to save himself, his family, and every kind of animal, because God was going to destroy the Earth by bringing about a great flood. It also says that the ark rested on the highest point in the area which was Mount Ararat, in what is now Turkey. 

The size of the ship was 300 by 50 by 30 ells, according to Genesis 6:14. This makes it about half the size of the ship RMS Queen Elizabeth 2, or 133 by 22, by 13 metres. It would have had about the same tonnage (weight) as the RMS Titanic. 

There have been many recorded sightings of the ark over the years, however no physical evidence has been proven to show that the ark is currently on Mount Ararat. 

According to the Bible, the ark was made of gopherwood. Gopherwood is possibly the wood of a cypress tree, which was used for making ships in the Middle East. Cypress was good for making ships because it had strong wood from a large trunk and limbs. However, no one knows for sure what kind of tree gopherwood was.

The ark was 300 cubits long, and 50 cubits wide; the height was 30 cubits. For a long time people did not know exactly how much a cubit was. One day in the later years of the 19th century, archaeologists found a tunnel in Jerusalem. This tunnel had been built in the days of King Hezekiah (around 700 B.C.). At the entrance was an inscription that said the tunnel was 1200 cubits long. The archaeologist measured the tunnel and saw it was 1800 feet long (54,000 centimeters). So now, people know that the Hebrew cubit, at least in the time of King Hezekiah, was 18 inches (45 centimeters).

The shape and size of the ark were very good for floating (the ark was made to float, not for quickly going through the water). Many cargo ships are built like Noah's ark, because this design is very steady in the water.

After Noah had finished putting the ark together with the gopherwood boards, he had to make it "watertight" (so that water would not go inside the ark). According to the Bible, God told Noah to use pitch, a waterproof material to paint it inside and outside.

The building of the ark took Noah about 120 years, according to the time God gave to human beings before the flood started.
There are some problems with the way the story is understood, that started during Renaissance. The mythological creature called the Phoenix is unique (only one ever existed). How can there have been two of them? And were the Sirens that lure sailors into their doom taken onboard too? A popular solution was that they swam outside. And the Bird of Paradise must have flown around the ark endlessly, because it had no feet to land.

At the same time, a new kind of scholarship arose. These people never questioned the literal truth of the Ark story. They began to think about it from a practical point of view. In the 15th century, Alfonso Tostada told about the logic of the Ark, including things such as arrangements for the getting rid of dung and the circulation of fresh air. The well-known 16th-century geometrician Johannes Buteo worked out the ship's internal dimensions. He also allowed room for Noah's grinding mills and smokeless ovens. Other people also used his model, later on.

By the 17th century, America had been discovered and was being explored. This led to new problems. All the species had to be spread again from one point, after the flood. The obvious answer was that man had spread over the continents after the destruction of the Tower of Babel. The different groups took animals with them. Some of the results seemed peculiar, though: "why had the natives of North America taken rattlesnakes, but not horses", wondered Sir Thomas Browne in 1646? "How America abounded with Beasts of prey and noxious Animals, yet contained not in that necessary Creature, a Horse, is very strange."

Browne was among the first people to question the notion of spontaneous generation. He was a medical doctor and amateur scientist making this observation in passing. Biblical scholars of the time such as Justus Lipsius (1547–1606) and Athanasius Kircher (c.1601–80) were also beginning to look at the Ark story more closely. They tried to reconcile the Biblical account with natural historical knowledge of their time. The resulting hypotheses were important. They were a driving force behind the study of the geographical distribution of plants and animals. They indirectly helped the development of biogeography in the 18th century. Natural historians began to draw connections between climates and the animals and plants adapted to them. One important theory said that the biblical Ararat was striped with different climatic zones. When climate changed, the associated animals moved as well. Eventually they spread to repopulate the globe. There was also the problem of an ever-expanding number of known species: for Kircher and earlier natural historians, there was little problem finding room for all known animal species in the Ark, but by the time John Ray (1627–1705) was working, just several decades after Kircher, their number had increased dramatically. Incorporating the full range of animal diversity into the Ark story was becoming increasingly difficult, and by 1700 few natural historians could see any reasons to believe in a literal interpretation of the Noah's Ark narrative.

In 2011, a full-size replica of Noah's ark was built in Dordrecht in the Netherlands.


</doc>
<doc id="45830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45830" title="Joseph Barbera">
Joseph Barbera

Joseph Roland "Joe" Barbera (March 24, 1911 – December 18, 2006) was an Italian American animator, cartoon artist, storyboard artist, director, producer, and co-founder, together with William Hanna, of Hanna-Barbera. The studio produced well-known cartoons such as "Tom and Jerry", "The Huckleberry Hound Show", "The Flintstones", "The Jetsons", "Scooby-Doo" as well as the musical film, "Charlotte's Web.


</doc>
<doc id="45831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45831" title="William Hanna">
William Hanna

William Denby "Bill" Hanna (July 14, 1910 – March 22, 2001) was an American animator, director, producer, cartoon artist, and co-founder with Joseph Barbera of Hanna-Barbera. The studio made well-known cartoons, such as "The Huckleberry Hound Show", "The Flintstones", "The Jetsons", and "Scooby-Doo", as well as the musical film, "Charlotte's Web.


</doc>
<doc id="45832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45832" title="Hanna-Barbera">
Hanna-Barbera

Hanna-Barbera was a company that made cartoons. Some of these cartoons were The Jetsons, The Flintstones, Scooby-Doo, Yogi Bear, Smurfs, Pink Panther, Wally Gator, and Peter Potamus, as well as the 1973 movie version of Charlotte's Web and many more. It was started by and named after William Hanna and Joseph Barbera. After the death of Hanna in 2001, Hanna-Barbera split into two parts: Warner Bros. Animation (for older cartoons) and Cartoon Network Studios (for the newer ones on Cartoon Network).


</doc>
<doc id="45834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45834" title="Australian English">
Australian English

Australian English is the kind of English language used in Australia.

People from Britain and Ireland first came to live in Australia in 1788. They brought many different kinds of English with them. These different kinds of English began to mix and change. The new comers soon began to speak with their own distinctive accent and vocabulary. 

More and more people came to Australia in the 19th and 20th centuries. Many people came looking for gold. Some came from Britain and Ireland. Others came from non-English speaking countries. Australian English continued to grow and change.

Australian English has also been influenced by American English. During the Second World War there were many American soldiers staying in Australia. American television shows and music have been popular in Australia since the 1950s.

The Australian and New Zealand accents are very similar. 

In Australian English the /r/ sound can only occur before a vowel. Many words which sound different in other accents sound the same in Australian English. Some examples are:


Some Australian English vowels sound different to vowels of other kinds of English. For example, the vowel in "day" starts with a very open mouth. This makes the Australian "day" sound close to the "die" of most British or American people.

Australian English has some vowels not used in some other kinds of English. For example, the words "bad" and "lad" do not rhyme because "bad" has a long vowel and "lad" has a short one. Also, "cot" does not sound like "caught" and "bother" does not rhyme with "father".

As with American English the /t/ sound can sometimes sound like a /d/ sound. This usually happens between vowels. So, for example, 


Also in the Australian accent a /t/ sound plus the sound of "you" comes out sounding like "chew" and a /d/ sound plus the sound of "you" comes out sounding like "Jew". Here are some examples of things which sound the same.


Australians pronounce "wh" and "w" the same. Some examples are:


Australians use many words that other English speakers do not use. The famous Australian greeting, for example, is "G'day!". A native forest is called the "bush" and central Australia is called the "outback".

Many words were brought to Australia from Britain and Ireland. For example, "mate" meaning "friend" which is still used in Britain. Some of these words have changed in meaning. 

A few words have come from Australian Aboriginal languages. These are mainly names for animals, plants and places. Some examples are "dingo" and "kangaroo".

Sometimes we do not know where a word came from. For example, "dinkum" or "fair dinkum" means "true", "is that true?", "this is the truth". But nobody know where the word is from: some say the word comes from Chinese, others say the word comes from England.

Australian spelling is generally very similar to British spelling. In words like "organise", "realise", both "-ise" and "-ize" are accepted, as in British English, but, "-ise" is preferred. In words like "colour", "favourite", "-our" is the norm, but some proper names such as the "Labor" party and "Victor Harbor" are spelled with "-or". "Program" and "jail", on the other hand, are more common than "programme" and "gaol".

Most linguists (scientists who study language) split Australian English up into three main kinds. These are Broad, General, and Cultivated Australian English. 

Broad Australian English sounds very strongly Australian, when compared to other kinds of English. Dame Edna Everage speaks Broad Australian English.

General Australian English is the middle ground. It is used by most Australians, and can be heard in Australian-made films and television programs. Russell Crowe and Nicole Kidman speak General Australian English. 

Cultivated Australian English is close to British English. Judy Davis and Geoffrey Rush speak Cultivated Australian English.

The Australian accent does not change much across the country. However, some small differences include how the letter 'a' sounds like in the words "castle", "dance", "chance", "advance", etc. Some use the vowel in "calm" others use the vowel in "mat" or "mad". Another regional difference is the pronunciation of 'e' sounds especially followed by 'l', such as "Melbourne", "helped", "cellist", with Victorians pronouncing this 'e' like the 'a' sound in "alchemy" or "chalice". 

However, there are differences in the words Australians use in different parts of the country. For example, "football" (or "footy" for short) means "rugby" in NSW and Queensland, but "Australian rules football" in Victoria. In NSW, a swimming costume is called a "cossie" or "swimmers", in Queensland it is called "togs", but it's called "bathers" in most other states.



</doc>
<doc id="45836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45836" title="Apple (disambiguation)">
Apple (disambiguation)

An apple is a kind of fruit. Apple may also mean:


</doc>
<doc id="45840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45840" title="Spruce">
Spruce

Spruce are trees of the genus Picea, a genus of about 35 species of coniferous evergreen trees in the Family Pinaceae, found in the northern temperate and taiga regions of the earth. 

Spruces are large trees, from 20–60 (–95) m tall when mature, and can be distinguished by their conical form and their needles, that are attached singly to the branches in a spiral fashion. The needles are shed when 4–10 years old.




</doc>
<doc id="45841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45841" title="Christmas tree">
Christmas tree

A Christmas tree or Tannenbaum is one of the most popular traditions associated with the celebration of Christmas. It is normally an evergreen coniferous tree that is brought into a home or used in the open, and is decorated with Christmas lights and colourful ornaments during the days around Christmas. An angel or a star is often placed at the top of the tree.


</doc>
<doc id="45844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45844" title="Cell division">
Cell division

Cell division is the process by which a cell, called the parent cell, divides into two cells, called daughter cells. When the cell divides, everything inside it divides also. The nucleus and the chromosomes divide, and the mitochondria divide also. There are two types of cell division. In mitosis, ordinary body (somatic) cells divide; in meiosis cells divide to produce gametes (sex cells).
Cells are the 'building blocks' of life, and cell division is a basic feature of life. For simple unicellular organisms like amoeba, one cell division reproduces the entire organism. On a larger scale, cell division can create offspring from multicellular organisms, such as plants that grow from cuttings. But most importantly, cell division enables organisms that are able to sexually reproduce to develop from the one-celled fertilised egg zygote. After growth, cell division allows for continual renewal and repair of the organism. And binary fission is where a cell splits in two.


</doc>
<doc id="45846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45846" title="Saparmurat Niyazov">
Saparmurat Niyazov

Saparmurat Niyazov (February 19, 1940 - December 21, 2006) was the first President of Turkmenistan. He served from 1993 to 2006. Saparmurat Niyazov also called himself Türkmenbaşy, which means leader of the Turkmen people. He tried to make a cult of personality, which means that he put many pictures and statues of himself around his country to make himself seem important. While he was president, Niyazov made doing many things against the law, such as growing a beard or ballet dancing. He died from a heart attack on December 21, 2006, and Gurbanguly Berdimuhammedow became the new president of Turkmenistan. 


</doc>
<doc id="45847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45847" title="Template:Monty Python">
Template:Monty Python


</doc>
<doc id="45849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45849" title="Spruce (disambiguation)">
Spruce (disambiguation)

Spruce are trees in the genus "Picea". "Spruce" may also mean:

Places:

People:


</doc>
<doc id="45850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45850" title="Temperate">
Temperate

In geography, temperate latitudes of the globe lie between the tropics and the polar circles. The changes in these regions between summer and winter are not extreme, not burning hot or freezing cold. However, a temperate climate can have very unpredictable weather. One day it may be sunny, the next it may be raining, and after that it may be cloudy. This is usual in summer as well as in winter.The temperate regions has 4 seasons, namely: summer,fall,winter and spring.


</doc>
<doc id="45851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45851" title="Lithuanian language">
Lithuanian language

The Lithuanian language is a Baltic language. It is from Lithuania, spoken in a few countries in Europe, as well as in the Americas and Australia. 

Lithuanian and Latvian are the only remaining Baltic languages. Both languages have many things in common. Lithuanian, however, adopted fewer words and phrases from German and other languages. However, long ago Lithuanian was affected by the Slavic languages, so the main barbarisms were replaced with Lithuanian words only in 1920, by Lithuanian philologist Jonas Jablonskis and others. 

There are two main dialects of Lithuanian. "Samogitian" is the dialect mostly used in West Lithuania, the other, widely used in the whole country is "Aukštaitian" (High-landers' dialect). The standard Lithuanian comes from West-Aukštaitian. 

The first book written in Lithuanian is "Katekizmas" by Martynas Mažvydas. It was published in East Prussia in 1547. 


</doc>
<doc id="45853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45853" title="Category:User tl">
Category:User tl


</doc>
<doc id="45860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45860" title="Depeche Mode">
Depeche Mode

Depeche Mode are an English band. Last year (2009) they released their newest album 'Sounds of the Universe'. The band's name was taken from a French fashion magazine, ""Dépêche mode"", which means "Fashion Update" or "Fashion News Dispatch". Depeche Mode became famous in the 1980s.

In Depeche mode there are three members:

- Dave Gahan 
- Martin Lee Gore 
- Andrew Fletcher




</doc>
<doc id="45861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45861" title="Gingivitis">
Gingivitis

Gingivitis is the inflammation of the gums around the teeth. Gingivitis may be caused by a build up of plaque and tartar because the teeth have not been cleaned properly. It can also be a manifestation of a systemic disease, as in diabetes or AIDS.

Sometimes excessive brushing or flossing can wear out the gums causing gum recession.

If gingivitis is not treated by proper oral hygiene, it can lead to periodontitis, which is a more advanced state of gum disease, that affects the bone and is harder to treat.


It is more common in women because they are dirty


</doc>
<doc id="45864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45864" title="MediaWiki:Sitenotice close">
MediaWiki:Sitenotice close

close

</doc>
<doc id="45865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45865" title="Taiga">
Taiga

Taiga (IPA pronunciation: , from Mongolian) is characterized by coniferous forests. Taiga covers most of inland Alaska, Canada, Sweden, Finland, inland Norway, northern Kazakhstan and Russia (especially Siberia), as well as parts of the extreme northern continental United States. The taiga is the world's largest region with forests. In Canada, boreal forest is the term used to refer to the southern part of these forests, while "taiga" is used to describe the northern areas south of the Arctic tree line.


</doc>
<doc id="45866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45866" title="Conifer">
Conifer

The Conifers are cone-bearing seed plants, mostly trees with some shrubs. They are formally the Division Pinophyta or Coniferophyta. 

Conifers are Gymnosperms. They are cone-bearing seed plants with vascular tissue; all living conifers are woody plants, the great majority being trees. 

Typical examples of conifers include cedars, cypresses, firs, junipers, kauris, larches, pines, redwoods, spruces, and yews. 

Species of conifers can be found in almost all parts of the world, and are often the most common plants in their habitats, as in the taiga. Conifers are of great economic value, and their wood is mainly used for timber and paper making The wood of conifers is known as softwood, though yew wood is actually quite hard. The division "Coniferae" contains about 700 living species.

They were the dominant land plants of the Mesozoic era. They were overtaken by the flowering plants, which first appeared in the Cretaceous, and became dominant in the Cainozoic era. Conifers were the main food of herbivorous dinosaurs, and their resins and poisons would have given protection against herbivores.


</doc>
<doc id="45868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45868" title="Binomial nomenclature">
Binomial nomenclature

In biology, binomial nomenclature is how species are named. As the word "binomial" suggests, the name of a species is made by using two words: the genus name and the species description. Binomial nomenclature means "two named description".
The person who created this system for use was Swedish botanist and physician Carolus Linnaeus (1701—1781) who tried to find names for all things in the natural world and gave every species (mineral, vegetable or animal) a two-part name. This kind of naming had been used before Linnaeus, but before Linnaeus, hardly anybody used binomial nomenclature. After Linnaeus, almost everybody did.

The value of the binomial nomenclature is

Many rules have been made to make binomial nomenclature more easy to understand and use. There are now several codes and books full of information on how to organize these names. 


There is still discussion between scientists on how to improve binomial nomenclature. 

The names may come from any source whatsoever. Often they are Latin words, but they may also come from Ancient Greek, from a place, from a person, a name from a local language, etc. In fact, the people who come up with these names sometime use specific descriptors from a variety of sources, including jokes and puns.

The names are always treated grammatically as if they were a Latin sentence. This is why the name of a species is sometimes called its "Latin name," but scientists like calling these names scientific names.

The genus name must be unique inside each group of life. Species names are reused, and are sometimes given a third name which is a noun.



</doc>
<doc id="45869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45869" title="System">
System

System (Latin word is (systēma)) is a group of related things, that work with each other. These things can be real or imaginary. Systems can be real things, like a car's engine. But systems can also be things made by persons to organize ideas, groups, people, and anything else. A subsystem is a little system within a big system. 

Systems are a way to describe a set of items, or people, or things that are related, and most systems describe ways of making them work together, or why they work together already. Some systems are nothing more than a different way of looking at a problem, or thinking about a job being done. 
Other systems are more like organizing books on a shelf, so that people can find things more simply, without having to search. These can be systems about how to program computers or manage people.

There are many kinds of systems. A system can refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="45875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45875" title="Valencia orange">
Valencia orange

The Valencia orange is an orange first made by the Californian agronomist William Wolfskill, on his farm in Santa Ana. The orange was later sold to the Irvine Company, who later used half of its land to grow the orange. Orange County is named after this orange because of its popularity. The Irvine Company's Valencia operation later split from the company and became Sunkist. Cultivation of the Valencia in Orange County had stopped by the mid-1990s because of rising property costs, which caused what remained of the Southern California orange industry to move to Florida. It is usually harvested between March and June. 


</doc>
<doc id="45877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45877" title="Papaya">
Papaya

Papaya is a tall herbaceous plant in the genus "Carica"; its edible fruit is also called papaya. It is native to the tropical region of America, mainly from southern Mexico to Central America. Now these plants are grown in all tropical regions of the world.

Papayas are plants of tropical regions and, for growth and fruit production, they need a warm climate. They cannot live with low temperatures.

The genus "Carica" was given that name by Linnaeus because the leaves of these plants are like those of the common fig ("Ficus carica").

The common name comes from the Taíno word "papáia" that was changed in Spanish to papaya, the word most used worldwide, with some changes. In Australia and some countries of the Caribbean, the fruit is called "papaw" or "pawpaw" but another North American plant, "Asimina triloba" of the Annonaceae family has also that name.

The French name for the fruit is "papaye" and "papayer" for the plant. In Portuguese, the fruit is called "mamão", "papaia" or "ababaia" and the tree "mamoeiro" or "papaeira".

In Spanish, there are other names besides papaya. In Cuba, it is called "fruta bomba" except in the eastern provinces where papaya is used. In the Dominican Republic, Los Llanos (Venezuela) and Eastern Central Colombia, the name is "lechosa". In Argentina and Paraguay, the fruit is called "mamón".

Other names and translations can be seen at Wiktionary.

It is a large plant, like a tree, without branches; it is a herbaceous plant because the stem does not have much wood and remains soft and green until its death. The single stem grows from 5 to 10 m tall with all the leaves on the top. The leaves are large, 50–70 cm wide.

Some plants have perfect (with female and male organs) flowers but other plants have flowers with only one sex (female or male).

Generally, the fruit is oval to nearly round and, in some cases, like a big pear. Fruits are 15-50 cm long and 10–20 cm wide, and weigh up to 9 kg.

The skin of the fruit is thin and tough; it is not eaten because is too bitter. First, the skin is green but it changes to yellow in ripe fruits, ready to be eaten. In a ripe fruit, the pulp is yellow, orange, pink, and even light red. Inside the fruit, there are many small black seeds.

Ripe papayas are eaten fresh, after taking out the skin and the seeds; sometimes, they are cut in small pieces and mixed with other fruits for a fruit salad. Papayas that are not completely ripe can be cut in pieces and cook with sugar and eaten as dessert. In tropical regions, it is very popular the juice of papaya, after taking the skin and seeds; this juice can be mixed with milk to make smoothies.

Green papayas, those that are not ripe, are eaten in some Asiatic countries in salads, curries and soups but they should be boiled before eating them. Young leaves and stems are also cooked as a vegetable. Green papaya is used in Thai cuisine, both raw and cooked.

The papaya is a source of iron and calcium; a good source of vitamins A, B and Riboflavin and an excellent source of vitamin C (ascorbic acid).

The latex (a sap like milk) from the green fruits, the leaves and the stem are rich in an enzyme called papain, a protease that breaks down tough meat fibers. Papain is a component in products ("meat tenderizers") sold in shops and that is used to make meat more soft before cooking it.



</doc>
<doc id="45879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45879" title="Flowering plant">
Flowering plant

Flowering plants (also called Angiosperms) are a familiar form of land plants. Together with the gymnosperms they make up the seed plants. They are different from the gymnosperms because angiosperms bear flowers and gymnosperms do not bear flowers.


</doc>
<doc id="45880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45880" title="Amanda Michalka">
Amanda Michalka

Amanda Joy "AJ" Michalka (born April 10, 1991) is an American singer and actress from Torrance, California, USA. Her parents are Carrey Begley-Michalka and Mark Michalka. Her older sister is actress Alyson Michalka. She is notable for being in the band with her sister called 78violet. She also starred with her sister in the Disney movie "Cow Belles". She is of German-American ancestry.
Amanda Michalka was born in Torrance, California in 1991. Her older sister, Alyson "Aly" Michalka and their parents moved to Seattle, Washington. There her parents made sure they were exposed to all varieties of music. They then moved back to Southern California, where they still live.

In 2010 Amanda began a relationship with engineer Bruno Ulrich (b.1975). The couple are engaged in December 2010. They had been married on February 14, 2011. In March 2011, less than a month after their wedding, the spouses were separated. In June Amanda filed for divorce from Bruno. Michalka and Ulrich were officially divorced on September 1, 2011.

Michalka was in a number of WORD Music Productions at her church in Southern California as a young child. Michalka plays a variety of instruments such as acoustic guitar, electric guitar, piano, and bongos. She used to be a model for catalogs. In March 2006, she made her Disney Channel debut in the Disney Channel Original Movie "Cow Belles", as "Courtney Callum", along with sister Aly, as "Taylor Callum". She has also made appearances on shows such as "Oliver Beene", "Six Feet Under", "The Guardian", and "General Hospital".
she has also appeared with her sister in the MTV movie, "".








</doc>
<doc id="45885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45885" title="Salmonberry">
Salmonberry

Salmonberries (Rubus spectabilis) are a type of fruit. They are in the rose family Rosaceae.


</doc>
<doc id="45886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45886" title="Grape tomato">
Grape tomato

A grape tomato is a small, usually oblong tomato. They are similar in size to a small cherry tomato and they both have a similar taste, but the grape tomato also has the similar oblong shape of a plum tomato. The tomatoes were introduced to the United States market in 1997 by grower Andrew Chu, who got them from Taiwan's Known-You Seed Co, though the majority of the production is by a company called Procacci Brothers, who market them as "Santa Sweets". They are considered a difficult crop to grow, as they do not produce as heavily as many cherry tomato varieties.

It is believed that the tomatoes originated in Southeast Asia. They are eaten as bar snacks in some parts of Thailand.


</doc>
<doc id="45887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45887" title="Adolf von Henselt">
Adolf von Henselt

Adolf von Henselt (born Schwabach, Bavaria, May 9 1814; died Warmbrunn (now Cieplice), Silesia, October 10 1889 was a German pianist and composer. He had piano lessons from Hummel in Weimar. When he was a young man he played in concerts all over Germany. Then he went to Russia where he was very successful and he settled there to live. He became pianist at the court of the tsar and taught the tsar’s children how to play the piano.

Henselt was known for his beautiful playing of the music of Chopin. He was very good at playing widely spaced arpeggios and could make them sound very smooth (legato) even if he was not using the pedal.

As a composer he is mostly remembered today for a few of his short works which are often quite sentimental, e.g. "Frühlingslied" ("Spring Song") and "Si oiseau j’étais" ("If I were a bird").


</doc>
<doc id="45889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45889" title="Cherry tomato">
Cherry tomato

The Cherry Tomato is a type of tomato that is a fruit. They grow up to be about 1 inch.
This type of tomato was originally developed in Israel.


</doc>
<doc id="45891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45891" title="Binary star">
Binary star

A binary star is two stars which orbit around each other. For each star, the other is its "companion star". Many stars are part of a system with two or more stars. Binary stars are important in astrophysics because looking at their orbits allows scientists to find out their masses. This information can be used to learn the masses of individual stars.

Binary stars are not the same as line-of-sight "apparent double stars", which look close together but are not connected by gravity. Double stars may actually be far apart in space, but binary stars are quite close together. The first person to discover and prove true binary stars was the Anglo-German astronomer William Herschel. He published the first catalogue of binary stars, and his son John Herschel found several thousand more and updated the catalogue.

Some binary stars can be seen as two separate stars by people with good eyesight—Mizar and Alcor in the handle of the Big Dipper (called "The Plough" in some countries) are an example a "visual binary" where the individual stars are visible. Other binary stars are so close together that instruments must be used to tell them apart. One way to tell binary stars and double stars apart is to watch them for a long time. Over a few decades of observation, true binary stars will move around each other, but double stars always stay in the same position.

Some stars appear to be in orbit around empty space, and appear not to have a companion. In this case, the companion star is either very small and faint, or it is a neutron star or a black hole. The best-known example of a star with an invisible companion is Cygnus X-1, in which the visible star's companion appears to be a black hole. 

A "visual binary" star is one for which the separation of the two stars can be seen with a telescope. The brighter star is the "primary" and the fainter star is the "secondary". Visual binaries take a long time to orbit one another, in the area of hundreds or even thousands of years

A "spectroscopic" binary is one in which the two stars cannot be seen separately even with a telescope. They are very close together and move around each other very quickly, over a period of a few weeks or even a few days. However, they can be seen to be two separate stars by using a spectroscope, which is able to record the Doppler change in the color of the light sent out by stars moving quickly toward or away from the Earth. 

Some spectroscopic binaries have an orbit that is edge-on to Earth. When this happens, the stars will take turns passing in front of and eclipsing the partner star, in what is called an "eclipsing binary". In this case, the amount of light we see from the double dims slightly during the time one star is in front of the other.

An "astrometric binary" is one where only one companion can be seen. For astrometric binaries fairly near the Earth (up to about 10 parsecs), it may be possible to see the visible companion "wobble" as it moves around its invisible companion. By making measurements over a long period of time, it may be possible to calculate the mass of the visible star and how long its orbit takes. This method is also used to detect the presence of large planets orbiting a star; as of 2007, over two hundred planets have been discovered in this way.

Most binaries are "detached binaries". Except for their gravitational pull on one another, they have no effect on each other.

Some binaries are so close to one another that one or both stars is able to pull material from the other. They may share the same stellar atmosphere, and as friction slows them down over a long period, they may merge into one star.

Though it could be possible that binary stars may form when one star passes very close to another, it is highly unlikely (since it would actually take three stars close to one another before two could join), and would occur only in places where stars are densely packed together. Our present understanding is that almost all binaries are formed together in the dense gas clouds where stars are born. 

It is possible (though not likely) that a passing star will disrupt a binary system and provide enough gravitational force to split the binary. Such separated stars go on to live lives as ordinary single stars. Sometimes, though, enough gravitational force is involved that the two companions speed away from each other at great speeds, resulting in what is known as "runaway" stars.

Sometimes a star is in orbit around a white dwarf star. If it is large enough and close enough to the white dwarf, the dwarf may suck gasses from its companion's atmosphere. Over a period of time, a great deal of gas may collect on the white dwarf. As this gas is compacted by the white dwarf's gravity, it will eventually undergo nuclear fusion, resulting in a very bright outburst of light, known as a "nova". In some cases, the white dwarf may gather so much gas that the explosion completely destroys it, in what is called a "supernova". Such an event may also result in runaway stars, as the larger star no longer has a heavy companion which keeps it in orbit.



</doc>
<doc id="45896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45896" title="Imperial unit">
Imperial unit

The Imperial units or the Imperial system is a collection of measurement units. Commonwealth countries used this system from 1824 until they changed to the metric system. The imperial system is very similar to the American system but there are some differences. 

The British nautical mile used to be 6080 feet. In 1970 the UK adopted the international definition of 1852 metres.

The full table of "British apothecaries’ measure" is:
For a comparison to the U.S. customary system see the article on Comparison of the Imperial and US customary systems.




</doc>
<doc id="45897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45897" title="Comparison of the Imperial and US customary systems">
Comparison of the Imperial and US customary systems

The imperial and U.S. customary systems are very similar but there are some differences between them.

The main difference is in units of volume. The American system has two gallons: a wet and a dry one. The imperial gallon is bigger than each of these. However, the imperial fluid ounce is slightly smaller than the American one. 

The international yard is exactly 0.9144 metres. This definition was agreed upon by the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand in 1959. However, the United States continued to use its old length units for surveying purposes. The US survey foot is exactly 36/39.37 metre.

Another difference is in units of mass. In Britain people often use the stone. One stone is 14 pounds. Eight stones are one hundredweight (112 lb). Twenty hundredweights are one ton. So one British ton is 2240 pounds. It is very close to the tonne of the metric system. 

In the United States people do not use the stone. They usually use a hundredweight of 100 pounds. This hundredweight is also called a "short hundredweight". Twenty short hundredweights are one short ton. The British hundredweight is also called the "long hundredweight" and the Britsh ton is also called the "long ton".



</doc>
<doc id="45898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45898" title="Template:Frac">
Template:Frac

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="45899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45899" title="Stone (unit)">
Stone (unit)

The stone is a unit of mass in the imperial system. It is equal to fourteen pounds. 160 stone make up a long ton. In the metric system, 1 stone = 6.35029318 kilograms



</doc>
<doc id="45904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45904" title="Maccabi Haifa F.C.">
Maccabi Haifa F.C.

Maccabi Haifa Football Club (, "Moadon HaKaduregel Maccabi Haifa") is an Israeli football team from the city of Haifa, a section of Maccabi Haifa sports club. The club has won 11 championships, 5 State Cups and 3 Toto Cups. The club was founded in 1913, and it is one of the country's most successful teams in Europe, being the first Israeli club to qualify for the group stage of the UEFA Champions League.

Maccabi Haifa Football Club was established in 1913 in the port city of Haifa. It was a small, struggling club that spent most of its time bouncing between the Liga Leumit and the lower leagues. 

The club was overshadowed by their city rivals Hapoel Haifa, who were then the darling club of the city of Haifa and especially of then mayor Abba Hushi. But even in its first years the club adapted a very adventurous and offensive style of play based on technique and short passes. In 1942, the club reached the Israel State Cup final, but was humiliated 12-1 by Beitar Tel Aviv in the final, which is the club's worst defeat ever. In 1962, the club won its only honour until the 80s, when the team defeated Maccabi Tel Aviv 5-2 in the State Cup final. In 1963 they reached the final again, but failed to defend their title losing to arch-rivals Hapoel Haifa 1-0.

Maccabi Haifa F. C. is a professional football (soccer) club in Israel. Founded in 1913, it is Israel's most successful club both domestically and in European competitions.

Leagues Won
Cups Won

Avi Ran, 
Adoram Keisi, 
Eyal Berkovic,
Yaniv Katan,
Yossi Benayoun,
Reuven Atar and
Alon Mizrahi

Most Goals in season - 1993/1994

Most Games played without losing strike - 46 Games (From Seasons 1993-1995)

Most Away Undefeated Strike - 30

Most Points in a Year - 96 Points

The fan club of Maccabi Haifa F.C. have the nickname The Green Monkeys (הקופים הירוקים Hakofim Hayerukim). Additional the MCH (Maccabi Haifa) fans are known as the best of Israel.

"As of September 1 2009".


</doc>
<doc id="45907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45907" title="Tundra">
Tundra

In physical geography, tundra is an area where the tree growth is hindered by low temperatures and short growing seasons. The term "tundra" comes from "tūndâr" which means 'uplands, tundra, treeless mountain tract'. There are three types of tundra: arctic tundra, antarctic tundra, and alpine tundra. In all of these types, the is mostly grass, moss, and lichens. Trees grow in some of the tundra. The boundary between the tundra and the forest is known as the tree line or timberline.The area itself encircles the Arctic Ocean of the Northern Hemisphere. The climate in a tundra biome consists of freezing cold and dryness in the winter and cold summers. The tundra ground is a barren place, often covered with rocks. Most water on the tundra is frozen within the soil. The permanent frozen soil is called permafrost. Permafrost and fierce winds prevent large trees from growing deep roots. Plants in the tundra are small and grow close to the ground. Plants called cushions grow in tight clumps in the tundra, but lichens are the dominant plants. Lichens cover the rocks. The few trees that do grow on the tundra are dwarf willows and birch.

The deep and cold snow makes life in the tundra very difficult. Every animal must adapt in order to survive. Some have thick fur that turns white during the winter. Others find places to hibernate during the winter months. Some examples of animals that live in the tundra are: rodents, hares, sables, caribou, wolves, arctic foxes, bears, walruses, seals, and snowy owls.


</doc>
<doc id="45908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45908" title="Tree line">
Tree line

The tree-line or timberline is the edge of the habitat at which trees can grow. Beyond the tree-line, they are unable to grow as conditions are too bad.

There are several types of tree lines defined in ecology and geology:
At the tree-line, tree growth is often not clear with the last trees forming low bushes. If it is caused by wind, these are known as krummholz, from the German for 'twisted wood'.

The tree line, like many other natural lines (lake boundaries, for example), appears well-defined from a distance, but upon close inspection, it is not that clear. Trees grow shorter until they simply stop growing.

Some typical tree-line tree species (note the predominance of conifers):

The alpine tree-line at a location is dependent on local variables, such as aspect of slope, rain shadow and proximity to either geographical pole. Given this caveat, here is a list of average tree-lines from locations around the globe:
Like the alpine tree-lines shown above, polar tree-lines are heavily influenced by local variables such as aspect of slope and degree of shelter; trees can often grow in river valleys at latitudes where they could not grow on a more exposed site. Maritime influences such as ocean currents also play a major role in determining how far from the equator trees can grow. Here are some typical polar treelines:



</doc>
<doc id="45913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45913" title="Lift (force)">
Lift (force)

"' 
The lift force, lifting force or simply lift is the sum of all the forces on a body that force it to move perpendicular to the direction of flow. 

The most common type of lift is that of a wing of an aircraft. But there are many other common uses such as propellers on both aircraft and boats, rotors on helicopters, fan blades, sails on sailboats, and wind turbines.

While the common meaning of the term "lift" suggests an "upwards" action, lift can be in any direction. For instance, for a sail the lift is horizontal, and for the wing on a race car the lift is down.

There are a number of ways of explaining the production of lift; some are more complicated than others, some have been shown to be false. The simplest explanation is that the wing deflects air downward, and the reaction pushes the wing up. More complicated explanations focus on the air pressure around the wing, but these approaches are merely different expressions of the same underlying physical principles.



</doc>
<doc id="45920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45920" title="Tropics">
Tropics

The tropics are the region of the Earth near to the equator and between the Tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere and the Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere. This region is also referred to as the tropical zone and the torrid zone.

This area includes all the areas of the Earth where the sun reaches a point directly overhead at least once a year. The word "tropics" comes from Greek "tropos" meaning "turn", because the apparent position of the Sun moves between the two tropics within a year. 

Tropical plants and animals are those species that live in the tropics. "Tropical" is also sometimes used in a general sense for a tropical climate, a climate that is warm to hot and moist year-round, often with the sense of lush vegetation. However, there are places in the tropics that are anything but "tropical" in this sense, with even alpine tundra and snow-capped peaks, including Mauna Kea, Mt. Kilimanjaro, and the Andes as far south as the northernmost parts of Chile and Argentina. Places in the tropics which are drier with low humidity are such as the Sahara Desert and Central Africa and Northern Australian Outback. 


</doc>
<doc id="45921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45921" title="Mount Kilimanjaro">
Mount Kilimanjaro

Kilimanjaro (or Kilima Njaro, which means "shining mountain" in Swahili), formerly Kaiser-Wilhelm-Spitze, is a mountain in northeastern Tanzania. Kilimanjaro is the tallest free-standing mountain rise in the world, rising 4600 meters (15,000 ft) from the base, and includes the highest peak in Africa at 5,895 meters (19,340 ft). It gives a dramatic view from the surrounding plains. 
Mt. kilimanjaro is also a strato-like volcano. It has explosive eruptions. The last major eruption was about 100,000 years ago.


</doc>
<doc id="45922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45922" title="Tropical climate">
Tropical climate

A tropical climate is a type of climate typical in the tropics. It is a damp climate in which all twelve months have mean temperatures above 18°C (64.4 °F). 
Tropical Climates have almost continuous rainfall throughout the year, usually in the afternoon.



</doc>
<doc id="45924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45924" title="Alpine tundra">
Alpine tundra

Alpine tundra is a type of geological terrain. It is to be found at high enough altitude at any latitude on Earth. Alpine tundra lacks trees. The lower parts do not have permafrost. Because of this they are generally better drained than permafrost soils. Alpine tundra changes to subalpine forests below the tree line. 

Because alpine tundra is located in many different widely-separated regions of the Earth, there is no animal species found in all areas of alpine tundra.

Some animals of alpine tundra environments include the Kea parrot, marmot, Mountain goats, chinchilla, pika, golden eagle and snow leopard.

Very cold and dry. Winter temperatures below 10ºC. Mainly mosses, lichens and poor grasses. Some dwarf trees like birch and alder grow in Tundras. all types of tundra are classified as a dessert.

Tundras are mainly found in Northern areas such as Siberia and the North of Canada


</doc>
<doc id="45925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45925" title="Fumarole">
Fumarole

A fumarole (Latin "fumus", smoke) is an opening in the crust of the Earth, often in the neighborhood of volcanoes, where steam and gases come out, for instance carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, hydrochloric acid, and hydrogen sulfide. 

The name solfatara (from the Italian "solfo", sulfur), is given to fumaroles with sulfurous gases.


</doc>
<doc id="45926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45926" title="Köppen climate classification">
Köppen climate classification

The Köppen climate classification is one of the most widely used climate classification systems. It was developed by Wladimir Köppen, a German climatologist, around 1900 (with several further modifications by himself, notably in 1918 and 1936). It is based on the concept that native vegetation is the best expression of climate, thus climate zone boundaries have been selected with vegetation distribution in mind.


</doc>
<doc id="45927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45927" title="Unkel">
Unkel

Unkel is a city in the district of Neuwied, Rhineland-Palatinate, in the country of Germany. It is on the Rhine River.


</doc>
<doc id="45930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45930" title="Relative">
Relative

Relative can refer to:



Topology




Film and television

Literature

Music




</doc>
<doc id="45931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45931" title="Polar circle">
Polar circle

A polar circle is either the Arctic Circle or the Antarctic Circle. On earth, the Arctic Circle is at a latitude of 66˚ 33' 38" N, and the Antarctic Circle is at a latitude of 66˚ 33' 38" S. Areas between each polar circle and its pole (north pole, or south pole) will each year have at least one 24 hour period when the sun is continuously above the horizon and at least one 24 hour period when the sun is continuously below the horizion. 




</doc>
<doc id="45933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45933" title="Seine">
Seine

The Seine (/sɛn/ in French language) is a major river of north-western France. It is a commercial way and a tourist attraction, particularly within the city of Paris. The river is 776 km long. It flows into the Atlantic, the English Channel, near Le Havre.


</doc>
<doc id="45934" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45934" title="Walk">
Walk

Walk or Walking is the way people or animals travel on their legs. If a person goes out walking, it is said that he or she 'went for a walk'. Walking, for a long time, is known as a healthy exercise.


</doc>
<doc id="45935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45935" title="Horizon">
Horizon

The horizon (from Greek "orizein", to limit) is the line that separates earth from sky. But at many places the "true horizon" cannot be seen as there are trees, buildings, mountains and so forth. The line is then called "visible horizon". 



</doc>
<doc id="45936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45936" title="Arid">
Arid

An arid environment has a high deficit of rainfall or snow. So there is much less humidity added during the year than would be necessary for the demand for evaporation and transpiration. This is mostly due to the high temperatures and few storms that bring rainfall. Regions are classified as arid if their aridity index falls between 0.05 and 0.20.

Most deserts are semi-arid, arid or hyperarid, with the exception of Antarctica.


</doc>
<doc id="45942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45942" title="Muon">
Muon

The muon is an elementary particle. It has a negative electric charge and half spin. Its symbol is "μ". It is one type of lepton.

The muon has an average life time of 2.2 micro-seconds or 0.0000022 seconds.
A muon is like an electron but it is 200 times heavier. Unlike an electron, it decays into other particles. The superparticle of a muon is called a "smuon."

Muons can be made in Particle accelerators with energy levels above 105.7 MeV. Cosmic rays from the Sun also make muons: 

Muons are unstable elementary particles and are heavier than electrons and neutrinos but lighter than all other matter particles. They decay via the weak interaction. Because the total of the lepton numbers of the starting and ending particles must be the same, one of the product neutrinos of muon decay must be a muon-type neutrino and the other an electron-type antineutrino. Because charge must be kept the same, one of the products of muon decay is always an electron of the same charge as the muon. So, all muons decay to at least an electron, and two neutrinos. Sometimes, besides these necessary products, additional other particles that have a net charge and spin of zero (e.g., a pair of photons, or an electron-positron pair), are produced.

The dominant muon decay mode (sometimes called the Michel decay after Louis Michel) is the simplest possible: the muon decays to an electron, an electron-antineutrino, and a muon-neutrino. Antimuons, in mirror fashion, most often decay to the corresponding antiparticles: a positron, an electron-neutrino, and a muon-antineutrino.


</doc>
<doc id="45950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45950" title="Category:Water transportation">
Category:Water transportation


</doc>
<doc id="45951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45951" title="Category:Naval transportation">
Category:Naval transportation


</doc>
<doc id="45952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45952" title="Category:Military transportation">
Category:Military transportation


</doc>
<doc id="45953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45953" title="Category:Navy">
Category:Navy

This category is for articles that deal with the navy and naval operations.


</doc>
<doc id="45954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45954" title="Category:Air force">
Category:Air force

This category is for articles that deal with the Air force.


</doc>
<doc id="45955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45955" title="Category:Army">
Category:Army

This category is for articles that deal with the Army.


</doc>
<doc id="45956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45956" title="Category:United States military">
Category:United States military

This category is for articles dealing with military forces of the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="45957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45957" title="Category:Marines">
Category:Marines


</doc>
<doc id="45958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45958" title="Category:Special Forces">
Category:Special Forces


</doc>
<doc id="45959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45959" title="Template:Lotr">
Template:Lotr


</doc>
<doc id="45960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45960" title="Category:United States Air Force">
Category:United States Air Force


</doc>
<doc id="45961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45961" title="Category:United States Army">
Category:United States Army


</doc>
<doc id="45962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45962" title="Template:Harry Potter">
Template:Harry Potter


</doc>
<doc id="45963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45963" title="Category:British military">
Category:British military


</doc>
<doc id="45964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45964" title="Category:British Navy">
Category:British Navy

Royal Navy Officers. 
Information on Royal Navy Officers, Royal Marine Officers, QARNNS Officers (Queen Alexandra’s Royal Naval Nursing Service Officers), former WRNS Officers (Women’s Royal Naval Service Officers)and the officers of their Reserve Forces is accessible online at http://www.navylistresearch.co.uk/

</doc>
<doc id="45965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45965" title="Category:Harry Potter">
Category:Harry Potter

This category is about J. K. Rowling's "Harry Potter".


</doc>
<doc id="45966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45966" title="Category:Cooking">
Category:Cooking


</doc>
<doc id="45967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45967" title="Magnoliopsida">
Magnoliopsida

Magnoliopsida or dicotyledons is the name of a class of plants in taxonomy. They are also called dicots. It is the biggest group of flowering plants. Seedlings in this group have two seed leaves. Monocots have one seed leaf.



</doc>
<doc id="45968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45968" title="Category:Taxonomy">
Category:Taxonomy


</doc>
<doc id="45971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45971" title="Cardiopulmonary resuscitation">
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation

Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is the name for a number of procedures that should be applied if a person stop breathing, or if they suffered from cardiac arrest. These measures are performed to keep up an artificial circulation, so that vital organs still get oxygen. CPR does not start a person's heart again, but it can keep the blood (which carries oxygen) flowing around the body long enough for proper emergency treatment to be given.

CPR can be done at different levels. People outside the medical profession are usually expected to recognise the condition, to alert emergency services, and to keep up the artificial respiration, perhaps with the use of an automated tool, called "defibrillator". Emergency staff is trained to restart the circulation, and to get the patient's heart beating again. These people can use drugs, intubation, artificial pacemakers and defibrillation to achieve this result.

CPR is normally started on a person who is not breathing and is unconscious. It is continued until the heart can be restarted or the cause is diagnosed. CPR consists of regular compressions (pressing down) of the chest and rescue breathing. If a person's heart is working properly but they are not breathing, the aided breathing is called artificial respiration. The aim of CPR is to keep a small amount of oxygenated blood flowing to the brain and heart so that, if they are successfully resuscitated, they are not permanently brain damaged.

Time is a very important factor. Each minute that passes before the onset of the CPR measures lowers the chance of survival by about ten percent. In the case where the CPR starts within the first three to five minutes, and a defibrillator is available, the chance of survival can be as high as 50, or even 75% (That is: one out of two, or one out of four not surviving). In European countries, emergency services take about eight minutes or more to arrive, once they have been alerted. A victim's survival therefore largely depends on the presence and quick action of other people present. A quick call to emergency services, and a quick start of basic CPR, especially fibrillation can double to triple the chance of survival with adults, and children.


</doc>
<doc id="45973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45973" title="Airén">
Airén

An airén is a type of white grape used to make wine.


</doc>
<doc id="45975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45975" title="Jean Sibelius">
Jean Sibelius

Jean Sibelius (born Hämeenlinna (Tavastehus) 8 December 1865; died Järvenpää, 20 September 1957) was a Finnish composer. He is one of the most famous people from Finland and one of the greatest composers of symphonies of all times. He was born at a time when Russia had a lot of power in Finland and the Finnish people were trying hard to keep their own culture and their independence. This nationalism can be heard in a lot of his music, especially some of the choral music. After 1928 he composed very little. He lived in retirement in his home in the Finnish countryside.

Jean (pronounced the French way) was born 100km north of the Finnish capital Helsinki. His grandfather had changed the family name from a Finnish name to the Latin-sounding “Sibelius”. His father died during a cholera epidemic when Jean was very young. His family spoke Swedish at home, but when he was eleven he went to a Finnish-speaking school. He learned to play the violin and wanted to be a soloist. He loved reading the "Kalevala" which was a long epic poem about the old Finnish legends. He also loved the Swedish-speaking poets who wrote poems about nature.

In 1885 he went to Helsinki to study law but he soon gave up law and concentrated on his violin studies and composition. He went to Berlin to continue his music studies. He became good friends with the pianist and composer Ferruccio Busoni and went with him to Leipzig. At this time he had mainly written chamber music. In Vienna he had lessons from Karl Goldmark and heard lots of orchestral music. He spent a lot of his money, much of it on drink which was to be a big problem for him for many years.

He went back to Finland in 1891. He earned money by teaching. He wrote a big work for orchestra and singers called "Kullervo ". The words were in Finnish, the story was from the poem "Kalevala". This work made him famous.

In 1892 he married Aino Järnefelt. Her father was a general and very keen on the Finnish language. The Finnish were trying more and more at this time to be free of rule by Russia. Sibelius wrote more patriotic music during the 1890s e.g. the tone poem "En Saga" and the "Lemminkäinen" legends which include the popular "The Swan of Tuonela". His patriotic tone poem "Finlandia" is still very popular today. His music at this time was influenced by Wagner and Tchaikovsky. He also heard Finnish folk melodies and, although he does not use them directly in his music, they became part of his musical language. In 1897 he was given a state pension which helped him financially although for many years he was still very often short of money because he had expensive tastes.

Between 1899 and 1924 Sibelius composed the 7 symphonies which made him famous worldwide. His friend, the conductor Kajanus, conducted Sibelius’s works when he took the Helsinki Philharmonic Orchestra on tour around Europe. His wife was becoming worried about how much alcohol he was drinking in Helsinki, so 1903 she persuaded him to move the family to a place called Ainola in the Finnish countryside. They had a house built in Järvenpää. Apart from a few short periods in Helsinki he spent the rest of his life there. The first works he wrote there were his "Symphony no 2" and the "Violin Concerto ". He became seriously ill in 1908 and for several years he had to stop smoking cigars and drinking alcohol. He continued to travel and visited England several times and the United States in 1914 where he was very popular. After the war he continued to write more symphonies as well as some short, light pieces. The last great work that he wrote was the tone-poem "Tapiola" in 1926. He tried to write another symphony (no 8) but gave up and destroyed it. He never wrote any more music. He continued to live in retirement in his house in the Finnish country for another 30 years. The house is now a Sibelius museum.

Sibelius's wife Aino came from a highly respectable family. Although her father was a general in the army, there was a very great interest in culture in the Järnefeld family which included musicians, painters and poets. Jean fell in love with Aino on his first visit to her home. Aino was to be a faithful wife to him all his life, although she suffered a lot of hardship due to his drinking problems and his debts. They had five daughters.

Sibelius is best known for his symphonies and tone-poems. His symphonies are very different from one another, none can be described as being “typical” of his style. The early symphonies are Romantic in character, in the later symphonies he tries out lots of new ideas and sounds. His "Violin Concerto" is played by all the great violinists. Sibelius wrote lots of songs for voice and piano. These are mostly settings of Swedish poems. He also wrote many choral works, mostly in Finnish. These vocal works are not so well known outside Finland because the language is not familiar abroad, but there are some very good songs, especially "Luonnotar". Besides his important works he also wrote many short works in order to earn enough money to live. These include songs as well as many short piano pieces.

Sibelius's music today is extremely popular. His music has also been an influence on recent composers.



</doc>
<doc id="45976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45976" title="Category:Finnish people">
Category:Finnish people


</doc>
<doc id="45977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45977" title="Schutzstaffel">
Schutzstaffel

The (German for "Protective Squadron"), abbreviated

(Runic) or SS (Latin), was a large security and military organization of the National Socialist German Workers Party (Nazi Party) in Germany. 

The SS was established in the 1920s as a personal-guard unit for Nazi leader Adolf Hitler. Heinrich Himmler was its leader from 1929 to 1945. During that time, the SS grew from a small paramilitary formation to become one of the largest and most powerful organizations in Nazi Germany. The Nazis saw the SS as an elite unit, the party's "Praetorian Guard," with all SS personnel selected on the principles of racial purity and unconditional loyalty to the Nazi party. 

In contrast to the black-uniformed Allgemeine-SS, which was the political wing of the SS, the military wing was called the Waffen-SS, which evolved into a second German army within the Wehrmacht. It worked in tandem with the regular German army, or Heer. The Waffen-SS compiled a record of fierce fighting and notorious brutality against civilians and prisoners of war. Its units helped wipe out resistance by Polish Jews in the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising and slaughtered U.S. prisoners of war near the Belgian town of Malmedy during the Battle of the Bulge in 1944.

The SS was different from the German military, Nazi party, and German state officials because it had its own SS rank structure, SS unit insignia, and SS uniforms.

As the Nazi party monopolized the political power in Germany, key government functions such as law enforcement were simply absorbed into the SS. Many SS organizations became the de-facto government agencies. To maintain the political power of the party, the SS was given authority to establish and run the Sicherheitsdienst ("SD"), which was the security and intelligence service, and the "Geheime Staatspolizei" ("Gestapo"), or SS secret police, effectively putting the SS above the law. 

Heinrich Himmler, the SS leader, was one of the chief architects of the Final Solution. The SS Einsatzgruppen murdered civilians; mostly Jews, in the countries occupied by Germany during World War II. The SS was responsible for establishing and operating concentration camps and extermination camps in which millions of inmates died of inhumane treatment, exploitation, malnutrition or medical experiments. After the war, the judges of Nuremberg Trials declared the SS a criminal organization responsible for the implementation of racial policies of genocide and committing war crimes and crimes against humanity.


</doc>
<doc id="45979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45979" title="Logarithm">
Logarithm

Logarithms or logs are a part of mathematics. They are related to exponential functions, and are useful in multiplying or dividing large numbers.

Logarithms were first used in India in the 2nd century BC. The first to use logarithms in modern times was the German mathematician Michael Stifel (around 1487-1567). In 1544, he wrote down the following equations: formula_1 and formula_2 This is the basis for understanding logarithms. For Stifel, formula_3 and formula_4 had to be whole numbers. John Napier (1550–1617) did not want this restriction, and wanted a range for the exponents.

According to Napier, logarithms express ratios: formula_5 has the same ratio to formula_6 , as formula_7 to formula_8 if the difference of their logarithms matches. Mathematically: formula_9. At first, base e was used (even though the number had not been named yet). Henry Briggs proposed to use 10 as a base for logarithms, such logarithms are very useful in astronomy.

A logarithm tells what exponent (or power) is needed to make a certain number, so logarithms are the inverse (opposite) of exponentiation

Just as an exponential function has three parts, a logarithm has three parts. The three parts of a logarithm are a base, an argument (also called power) and an answer.

This is an exponential function: 
In this function, the base is 2, the power is 3 and the answer is 8.
This exponential function has an inverse, this logarithm:

In this logarithm, the base is 2, the argument is 8 and the answer is 3.

Logarithms can make multiplication and division of large numbers easy because adding logarithms is the same as multiplying, and subtracting logarithms is the same as dividing.

Before calculators became cheap and common, people used logarithm tables in books to multiply and divide. The same information in a logarithm table was available on a slide rule, a tool with logarithms written on it.






Logarithms to base 10 are called common logarithms. They are usually written without the base. For example:
Some authors prefer the use of natural logarithms as formula_13 but usually mention this on preface pages.

This means:

Logarithms to base "e" are called natural logarithms. The number e is nearly 2.71828, and is also called the Eulerian constant after the mathematician Leonhard Euler.

The natural logarithms can take the symbols formula_15 or formula_16

Logarithms have many properties. For example:
This property is straight from the definition of a logarithm:

The logarithm to base "b" of a number "a" is the same as the logarithm of "a" divided by the logarithm of "b". That is,
For example, let "a" be 6 and "b" be 2. With calculators we can show that this is true or at least very close:
Our results had a small error, but this was due to the rounding of numbers.

Since it is hard to picture the natural logarithm, we find that, in terms of a base-ten logarithm:

Logarithms which multiply inside their argument can be changed as follows:
For example,
The same works for dividing but subtraction instead of addition, because it is the "inverse operation" of multiplication:
Before electronic computers, logarithms were used every day by scientists. Logarithms helped scientists and engineers in many fields such as astronomy.

Before computers, the "table of logarithms" was an important tool. In 1617, Henry Briggs printed the first logarithm table. This was soon after Napier's basic invention. Later, people made tables with better scope and precision. These tables listed the values of log("x") and "b" for any number "x" in a certain range, at a certain precision, for a certain base "b" (usually "b" = 10). For example, Briggs' first table contained the common logarithms of all integers in the range 1–1000, with a precision of 8 digits. As the function is the inverse function of log("x"), it has been called the antilogarithm. People used these tables to multiply and divide numbers. For example, a user looked up the logarithm in the table for each of two positive numbers. Adding the numbers from the table would give the logarithm of the product. The antilogarithm feature of the table would then find the product based on its logarithm.

For manual calculations that need precision, performing the lookups of the two logarithms, calculating their sum or difference, and looking up the antilogarithm is much faster than performing the multiplication by earlier ways.

Many logarithm tables give logarithms by separately providing the characteristic and mantissa of "x", that is to say, the integer part and the fractional part of log("x"). The characteristic of is one plus the characteristic of "x", and their significands are the same. This extends the scope of logarithm tables: given a table listing log("x") for all integers "x" ranging from 1 to 1000, the logarithm of 3542 is approximated by

Another critical application was the slide rule, a pair of logarithmically divided scales used for calculation, as illustrated here:

Numbers are marked on sliding scales at distances proportional to the differences between their logarithms. Sliding the upper scale appropriately amounts to mechanically adding logarithms. For example, adding the distance from 1 to 2 on the lower scale to the distance from 1 to 3 on the upper scale yields a product of 6, which is read off at the lower part. Many engineers and scientists used slide rules until the 1970s. Scientists can work faster using a slide rule than using a logarithm table.


</doc>
<doc id="45980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45980" title="William Penn">
William Penn

William Penn (14 October 1644-30 July 1718) was an English colonial leader. He was given what would become the US state of Pennsylvania by King Charles II as a debt to his father. Penn was a member of the Religious Society of Friends.

Penn and his wife were made honorary United States citizens in 1984 by US President Ronald Reagan.


</doc>
<doc id="45981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45981" title="Babe Ruth">
Babe Ruth

George Herman Ruth, Jr. (February 6, 1895 – August 16, 1948), also known as "Babe", "The Great Bambino", "The Sultan of Swat", "The of Clout", and "The King Of Crash", was a very famous baseball player during the 1920s and 1930s in Major League Baseball. He played with the Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees, and the Boston Braves, and hit 714 home runs in his career. Only two players, Hank Aaron and Barry Bonds, have hit more.

Ruth learned to play baseball while growing up in Baltimore, Maryland. His first Major League Baseball (MLB) team was the Boston Red Sox. Ruth began playing as a pitcher. He had some of the best pitching statistics in baseball. The Red Sox won the World Series in 1915, 1916, and 1918.

At that time, there was no designated hitter rule in the American League, where the Red Sox played, so Ruth got chances to hit as a pitcher. The team realized that he was also good at hitting. In 1918, Ruth began hitting more and pitching less. He became an outfielder.

Ruth was becoming a star player. However, by 1919, Red Sox owner Harry Frazee was having problems with money. In 1920, the Red Sox sold Ruth to the New York Yankees for cash. Even though the Red Sox had won several World Series in the years before this, they would not win another one until 2004. Many baseball fans believed that the Red Sox had become "cursed" by trading Ruth, and called this the "Curse of the Bambino". (When the Red Sox finally did win a World Series in 2004, they beat the Yankees in the American League Championship to get there.)

Ruth spent most of the rest of his career with the Yankees, where he became one of the most famous players in baseball history. Ruth helped the Yankees win World Series championships in 1923, 1927, 1928, and 1932. He left the Yankees after the 1934 season and played one last season with the Boston Braves in 1935.

In 1927, Ruth hit 60 home runs, which was then a record for the most home runs in one season. The record was broken by Roger Maris in 1961.

Ruth died of throat cancer on August 16, 1948.

He also had a .474 career on-base percentage, which is second all-time to Ted Williams' .482.



</doc>
<doc id="45983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45983" title="Korn">
Korn

Korn (sometimes written as KoЯn to fit their logo) is a Grammy Award-winning band from Bakersfield, California.

The band was originally called 'Creep' and had another singer.

People often say they created the nu metal genre . Along with other bands of the time, they were influences for a wave of nu metal, alternative metal and rap metal bands through the mid 1990s and early 2000s, helping Limp Bizkit (who were discovered by Korn themselves) and Slipknot more than other bands. Despite this, Korn have been quoted for disliking the term and even being called 'metal'. Jonathan Davis has said that Korn's music can not be classified and that it contains many other influences besides simply 'metal'. The official review on the iTunes Store for their first album goes as far as saying that Korn "hate the term". 

Their first album was first sold in 1994 and also called KoRn. Since then, Korn has sold over 35 millions records worldwide - including 16,5 millions in the U.S., making them one of the best-selling metal acts of the last twelve years. The band's catalogue consists of seven platinum studio albums in a row, one platinum compilation album, and seven consecutive debuts (including "Greatest Hits, Volume 1" compilation album) in top 10 of Billboard Top 200 best selling albums. Korn has been selected for 6 Grammys, and won 2 such awards. 8 of their albums has been awarded as multi-platinum, despite only part of them being on Billboard.


</doc>
<doc id="45985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45985" title="Aspirin">
Aspirin

Aspirin is the brandname of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). It has many uses, but is most commonly used as a pain killer, or used to reduce fever or inflammation. It also has an antiplatelet effect - it reduces the number of platelets in the blood which reduces blood clotting- in that function it is used to prevent heart attacks and cancer.

There are some possible side-effects to this drug, for example high doses can create damage to the kidneys and children can develop Reye's syndrome through the use of this drug which causes the liver to become fatty and not work properly and also the brain to become enlarged. It can be fatal, however most children with Reye's syndrome survive with treatment.

People with lung, kidney disease, gout, hyperuricemia (high amounts of uric acid), hemophilia, diabeties or high blood pressure should not take aspirin except on the advice of a qualified medical professional. Nor should people who are allergic to it, to ibuprofen or to naproxen sodium. People with asthma where attacks are brought about by aspirin should avoid using aspirin. 

The brand name is trademarked by the German firm Bayer.


</doc>
<doc id="45992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45992" title="Víctor Jara">
Víctor Jara

Víctor Jara (September 28, 1932- September 15, 1973) was a singer from Chile, South America. 

He was born into a family of very poor peasants but through a lot of hard work and effort was able to enter the University of Chile - something very unusual in a poor country like Chile. In this manner he was able to escape the poverty of his parents. 

At University he studied dramatic arts or acting; he taught and directed theatre productions. During this time he met and married Joan Turner, a British ballet dancer and choreographer who worked in Chile. 

Later Víctor Jara started to write and sing songs. He began to sing songs about the life of humble and poor people in his country: peasants, factory workers, miners, abandoned children, poor women. He also dedicated music albums to people who live in the shanty towns. 

Víctor Jara tried to use his music to bring awareness about the inequality between the richest and the poorest people in society. How poor folk have a hard time acquiring the most basic things, such as food, health care, education, and housing. He also supported politicians who called for a fairer distribution of wealth to end poverty. 

In 1973 Víctor Jara was killed by a military dictatorship led by General Augusto Pinochet for singing songs about social problems and social injustice. The U.S. government of Richard Nixon supported the military regime.



</doc>
<doc id="45997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45997" title="WWE">
WWE

WWE, Inc. (formerly World Wrestling Entertainment, Inc.) is a big company that produces professional wrestling shows. It is now the most popular company in the wrestling business. Vince J. McMahon started the company in 1952. His son, Vince K. McMahon is currently the chairman and CEO of the company and runs the company along with his daughter Stephanie.

The company used to be known as the World Wrestling Federation or the WWF. They changed their name to World Wrestling Entertainment after a lawsuit filed by the World Wildlife Fund.

WWE has championships which are recognitions of a wrestler being the best in their brand. The most important championships are the WWE Championship for "Raw" and the World Heavyweight Championship for "SmackDown".

There are also championships for specific divisions. This includes the WWE Diva's Championship which is fought for by the women on both brands. There is also a tag team championship that is shared by both brands.



</doc>
<doc id="45999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45999" title="Scutellosaurus">
Scutellosaurus

Scutellosaurus was a small bipedal herbivorous dinosaur from the Lower Jurassic period, 200–196 million years ago. It was about a metre long.

Its back was armoured, and it is placed in the Thyreophora with the other armoured dinosaurs. It was one of the earliest members of this group, and the most basal (primitive) form so far known. Its closest relatives may have been "Emausaurus" and "Scelidosaurus". These, and the larger armoured dinosaurs "Ankylosaurus", "Stegosaurus" and "Huayangosaurus", were all quadrupedal. The lightly built bipedal "Scutellosaurus" is similar in form to the ancestral dinosaurs, which were bipedal.

"Scutellosaurus" was around long, tall at the hips, and weighed . The fossil evidence includes two partial skeletons recovered from Arizona, although of the skull only the lower jaw has been recovered. There were also several hundred scutes running along its neck to its back and as far down as its tail. Some of these shields were flat, while others were pitted. It had an unusually long tail, possibly a counterbalance to the weight of the armoured body, and long arms that suggest it may have browsed on all fours.


</doc>
<doc id="46001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46001" title="Category:Motors">
Category:Motors


</doc>
<doc id="46004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46004" title="London Eye">
London Eye

The London Eye is a large metal structure. It is also known as the Millennium Wheel and is one of the largest observation wheels (a type of Ferris wheel) in the world. It was opened in 2000. It is 135 metres high. The London Eye is a popular tourist destination. More than three million people visited it last year. At the time it was built, in 1999, it was the tallest giant wheel in the world. But then the London Eye was overtaken in May 2006, by the Star of Nanchang, which is 160 metres high and stands in the eastern Chinese city Nanchang.
But on the 11th February 2008 the Singapore flyer overtook the Star of Nanchang, with 165 metres. The London Eye stands at the western end of Jubilee Garden, on the South Bank of the river Thames, between Westminster Bridge and Hungerford Bridge.



</doc>
<doc id="46007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46007" title="Finlandia (Symphonic Poem)">
Finlandia (Symphonic Poem)

Finlandia is a symphonic poem by the Finnish composer Jean Sibelius. He wrote it in 1899 and made some changes to it the next year. "Finlandia" is the Latin name for Finland. At the time Sibelius wrote it, Finland was called the "Grand Duchy of Finland". This was because it was being ruled by Russia. The Finnish people wanted to rule Finland for themselves. The music was composed for a pageant to encourage the Finnish people to work for freedom.

The music of "Finlandia" is exciting and dramatic. It sounds like the Finnish people struggling to be free. Towards the end the music becomes calm and a lovely tune is played. It is a hymn tune which became known as "Finlandia". Many years later Sibelius set some words to this hymn and it is often sung as a separate piece by a choir. The words were written by Veikko Antero Koskenniemi. It has become Finland's best known song and almost feels like a second Finnish national anthem. It is often sung as a hymn in Christian churches to the words "Be still, my soul: the Lord is on your side". The tune was also used as the national anthem of the short-lived African country Biafra.


</doc>
<doc id="46008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46008" title="Category:Compositions by Jean Sibelius">
Category:Compositions by Jean Sibelius


</doc>
<doc id="46011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46011" title="Transpiration">
Transpiration

Transpiration is the evaporation of water / loss of water from those parts of plants that are outside the earth, especially leaves but also stems, flowers and fruits. The amount of water lost by a plant depends on its size, along with the surrounding light intensity, temperature, humidity, wind speed, and soil water supply.

It happens because the plant needs to open its pores in order to obtain carbon dioxide gas from the air for photosynthesis. Transpiration also cools plants and enables the flow of mineral nutrients from roots to shoots. This mass flow is caused by the lower (hydrostatic) water pressure in the upper parts of the plants. 

The reason for this low pressure is that water gets out of the leaves into the atmosphere. Water gets into the plant at the roots by osmosis, and it transports dissolved mineral nutrients to the upper parts of the plant through the xylem.
Transpiration is a process similar to evaporation. It is a part of the water cycle, and it is the loss of water vapor from parts of plants (similar to sweating), especially in leaves but also in stems, flowers and roots. Leaf surfaces are dotted with openings which are collectively called stomata, and in most plants they are more numerous on the undersides of the foliage. The stoma are bordered by guard cells that open and close the pore. [1] Leaf transpiration occurs through stomata, and can be thought of as a necessary "cost" associated with the opening of the stomata to allow the diffusion of carbon dioxide gas from the air for photosynthesis. Transpiration also cools plants and enables mass flow of mineral nutrients and water from roots to shoots.
Mass flow of liquid water from the roots to the leaves is caused by the decrease in hydrostatic (water) pressure in the upper parts of the plants due to the diffusion of water out of stomata into the atmosphere. Water is absorbed at the roots by osmosis, and any dissolved mineral nutrients travel with it through the xylem.
The rate of transpiration is directly related to the evaporation of water particles from plant surfaces, especially from the surface openings, or stomates, on leaves. Stomatal transpiration accounts for most of the water loss by a plant, but some direct evaporation also takes place through the surfaces of the epidermal cells of the leaves. The amount of water given off depends somewhat upon how much water the roots of the plant have absorbed. It also depends upon such environmental conditions as sunlight, humidity, winds and temperature. A plant should not be transplanted in full sunshine because it may lose too much water and wilt before the damaged roots can supply enough water. Transpiration occurs as the sun warms the water inside the blade. The warming changes much of the water into water vapor. This gas can then escape through the stomata. Transpiration helps cool the inside of the leaf because the escaping vapor has absorbed heat. Transpiration helps cool the inside of the leaf because the escaping vapor has absorbed heat. degree of stomatal opening, and to the evaporative demand of the atmosphere surrounding the leaf. The amount of water lost by a plant depends on its size, along with surrounding light intensity,[2] temperature, humidity, and wind speed (all of which influence evaporative demand). Soil water supply and soil temperature can influence stomatal opening, and thus transpiration rate.
A fully grown tree may lose several hundred gallons of water through its leaves on a hot, dry day. About 90% of the water that enters a plant's roots is used for this process. The transpiration ratio is the ratio of the mass of water transpired to the mass of dry matter produced; the transpiration ratio of crops tends to fall between 200 and 1000 (i.e., crop plants transpire 200 to 1000 kg of water for every kg of dry matter produced).[3]
Transpiration rate of plants can be measured by a number of techniques, including potometers, lysimeters, porometers, photosynthesis systems and heat balance sap flow gauges.
Desert plants and conifers have specially adapted structures, such as thick cuticles, reduced leaf areas, sunken stomata and hairs to reduce transpiration and conserve water. Many cacti conduct photosynthesis in succulent stems, rather than leaves, so the surface area of the shoot is very low. Many desert plants have a special type of photosynthesis, termed crassulacean acid metabolism or CAM photosynthesis in which the stomata are closed during the day and open at night when transpiration will be lower.



</doc>
<doc id="46012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46012" title="Stomates">
Stomates

In botany, a stoma (also "stomate"; plural stomata) is a tiny opening or pore that is used for gas exchange. 

Air containing carbon dioxide and oxygen enters the plant through these openings where it is used in photosynthesis and respiration. Waste oxygen produced by photosynthesis exits through these same openings. Also, water vapor gets into the atmosphere through these pores in a process called transpiration.

The pore is formed by a pair of specialized cells known as guard cells which are responsible for regulating the size of the opening and found mostly on the under-surface(epidermis) of a plant leaf.


</doc>
<doc id="46016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46016" title="Leopold Mozart">
Leopold Mozart

Johann Georg Leopold Mozart (November 14, 1719 – May 28, 1787) was a composer, music teacher and violinist. He was the father and teacher of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.


</doc>
<doc id="46018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46018" title="Famine">
Famine

Famine is a situation where there is not enough food for people to eat. Without food, the human body grows weaker and weaker until the person becomes very sick or dies. In poor countries, such as in parts of Africa, famine can be common.

The great Irish famine was a great famine that lasted from 1846 to 1849 in Ireland. It was caused by "Phytophthora infestans", a kind of water mould. it killed potatoes, one of the main crops of Ireland at the time.

In the Holodomor, millions of people starved to death in the Ukraine in 1932 and 1933 as the Soviet Union government looked on.



</doc>
<doc id="46021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46021" title="Frequency modulation">
Frequency modulation

In telecommunications and signal processing, Frequency modulation transmits information over a carrier wave by varying the frequency. This technique is different from amplitude modulation which varies the amplitude, but keeps the frequency constant. In the context of broadcasting radio signals, Frequency modulation is often shortened to FM. When transmitting analogue sound, the sound quality of FM signals is better than that of amplitude modulation (AM) signals. However, FM signals do not travel as far as AM.

Many radio stations send out both kinds of signals, reserving AM for talk shows, and FM for music. In addition, FM is usually sent as two signals (with one signal's frequency a little lower than the other), which can come to two different speakers in a home. This creates FM stereo sound.



</doc>
<doc id="46024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46024" title="Monty Hall problem">
Monty Hall problem

The Monty Hall problem is a famous problem in probability (chance). The problem is based on a television game show from the United States, "Let's Make a Deal". It is named for the host of this show, Monty Hall.

In the problem, there are three doors. A car (prize of high value) is behind one door and goats (booby prizes of low value) behind the other two doors. First, the player chooses a door but does not open it. Then the host, who has knowledge of what is behind every door, opens a different door which he is certain has a goat behind it (opening either door with equal chances if the car is behind the player's door). Last, the host lets the player choose whether to keep what is behind the first door or to change choices to the third door (the one the host did not open). The rules of the problem are that the host has to open a door with a goat behind and has to let the player switch. The question is whether changing choices increases the chances of getting the car.

The chances of the car being behind the two doors that are still closed seem equal, so most people say changing choices does not increase the chances of getting the car. The true answer is that changing choices increases the chances of getting the car from 1/3 (one out of three) to 2/3 (two out of three).

That comes from the fact that the player, by choosing one door out of three, has a one chance in three of selecting the door with the car. The chance of the car being somewhere behind the other two doors is two out of three. So to improve his chance of winning a car, the player if given the choice, should swap his one door for the other two doors right away. But wait! The host then tries to confuse the player by opening one of his own goat doors. That changes nothing, remember that the player is still swapping his one door for the other two doors (even though one of them has been opened).

These are the options:

1. (Lose): If the player picks the car, then the host will show a goat. Then if the player changes his choice, he will get a goat .

2. (Win) : If the player picks a goat, then the host will show the other goat. Then if the player changes his choice, he will get a car.

3. (Win) : If the player picks the other goat, then the host will show the first goat. Then if the player changes his choice, he will get a car.

So, it is true that if the player changes (switches) then the player will win a car two times out of three.



</doc>
<doc id="46027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46027" title="Emergency telephone number">
Emergency telephone number

An emergency telephone number is a telephone number that can be used to quickly contact emergency services for assistance. Many countries' public telephone networks have a single emergency telephone number, sometimes known as the universal emergency telephone number or the emergency services number. Most emergency service numbers are three digits long so that they can be dialled quickly and remembered easily. Some countries have a different emergency number for each of the different emergency services, but they are often different only by the last digit.


</doc>
<doc id="46028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46028" title="Classified">
Classified

Classified could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="46038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46038" title="Category:War crimes">
Category:War crimes


</doc>
<doc id="46039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46039" title="Category:TV movies">
Category:TV movies

Category of movies that were made for and first shown on television.


</doc>
<doc id="46040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46040" title="Category:Death customs">
Category:Death customs

Category for things having to do with the customs people have dealing with death.


</doc>
<doc id="46042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46042" title="Category:Canadian capital cities">
Category:Canadian capital cities


</doc>
<doc id="46043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46043" title="Category:Cities in British Columbia">
Category:Cities in British Columbia


</doc>
<doc id="46045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46045" title="Category:Cities in Ontario">
Category:Cities in Ontario


</doc>
<doc id="46049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46049" title="Category:American singers">
Category:American singers


</doc>
<doc id="46050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46050" title="Category:American musicians">
Category:American musicians


</doc>
<doc id="46051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46051" title="Category:American songwriters">
Category:American songwriters


</doc>
<doc id="46052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46052" title="Category:American entertainers">
Category:American entertainers


</doc>
<doc id="46054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46054" title="Satellite city">
Satellite city

Satellite cities are smaller cities that are next to a large city that is the center of a metropolitan area. They are different from suburbs, subdivisions and bedroom communities because they have their own governments and enough jobs to support their own people. Satellite cities could be separate cities outside of the larger metropolitan areas. However, working as part of a metropolis, a satellite city gets "cross-commuting" (people living in the city working outside of the city and people from other places working in the city).


</doc>
<doc id="46055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46055" title="Category:American screenwriters">
Category:American screenwriters


</doc>
<doc id="46056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46056" title="Category:Canadian entertainers">
Category:Canadian entertainers


</doc>
<doc id="46057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46057" title="Shanty town">
Shanty town

Shanty towns are small towns in the outskirts of many cities – especially in third world countries. Normaly there are not many shanty towns in more economically developed countries. Often of low cost, with houses badly built with plywood, corrugated metal, sheets of plastic, cardboard or any available material. Often irregular structures good enough to keep the rain away or to protect from the summer sun. Pets and animals are often left to roam for food and water. 

Lack of clean water, sanitation and toilets often make people, especially children, more exposed to illnesses such as hepatitis and cholera. 

Many are built on land without a permit and often have no roads, numbered street, electricity or telephone lines. Some homes in shanty towns have some services but they are unkept and pose health and fire hazards. Sometimes shanty towns can take up whole parts of a city and may include millions of dwellers – such as in the cities of Brazil. 

Many shanty town settlements are built on the banks of rivers and as a result the residents suffer the effect of floods or from industrial toxins in the water. Some are built close to rubbish dumps.
Residents of shanty town often have poor health, lack education, high crime, suicides and shorter life expectancy.


</doc>
<doc id="46058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46058" title="Pterodactyloidea">
Pterodactyloidea

Pterodactyloidea is the suborder of short-tailed pterosaurs. Their fossil record starts in the late Jurassic. They become extinct in the K/T extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous period. "Pterodactylus", "Pteranodon" and "Quetzalcoatlus" are in this suborder.

This is the classification of the different divisions of pterodactyloidea:


</doc>
<doc id="46061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46061" title="Michael Praetorius">
Michael Praetorius

Michael Praetorius (born Creuzburg an der Werra, near Eisenach 15 February 1571? ; died Wolfenbüttel, 15 February 1621) was a German composer, organist and music theorist. He was one of the most important composers of his day and he wrote lots of different kinds of music. A lot of his music is based on hymns of the Protestant church.

We are not quite certain about the date of his birth. He was born at a time when there was a lot of argument about religion in Germany. His father was a strict Lutheran and lost his job more than once because of his beliefs. We know very little about the life of Praetorius. He seems to have gone to the Lateinschule (“Latin School”) in Torgau where he had music lessons from Michael Voigt. He probably never had music lessons after he left school. Then he went to the University of Frankfurt an der Oder. There Praetorius graduated in divinity. Afterwards he found a job as organist to the Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel. He soon earned a good salary. He married in 1603 and had two sons.

Although he had his job in Wolfenbüttel for many years he also worked a lot in Dresden where he met Heinrich Schütz and in Magdeburg where he met Samuel Scheidt. His health was not good, possibly because he worked so hard. When he died he left a lot of money to the poor.

Praetorius wrote a very large amount of music. Much of it has been lost. He wrote a collection of French dances called "Terpsichore" for a small group of instruments. These are very happy pieces and are very popular today. A lot of his music is based on Protestant hymns, written for the services in the Lutheran church. He liked to write music in which two groups of singers or instrumentalists alternate (take it in turns to sing/play). His music for choir, which includes many motets, shows him to be one of the best composers of his time. He liked to write music for two, three or four choirs (all singing different parts). The tune would be in the top part so that the congregation could join in.

Praetorius wrote a book about music theory called "Syntagma Musicum". Part One talks about religious music. It is very interesting for us today because it tells us a lot about the way that Martin Luther wanted to change music in the church services. In Part Two he described the musical instruments of his day. Part Three talks about musical forms: this included discussions about things like music notation (the way music was written), transposition (music), solmization and how to write for large choirs. He was going to write a Part Four in which he wanted to discuss the technique of musical composition, but he died before he could write it.


</doc>
<doc id="46062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46062" title="Denver Broncos">
Denver Broncos

The Denver Broncos are a American football team in the National Football League (NFL). They play their home games in Denver, Colorado at INVESCO Field at Mile High. The Broncos play in the West Division of the American Football Conference (AFC). 

As of December 1, 2010, the Broncos' head coach is Josh McDaniels, and their starting quarterback is Kyle Orton.

The Broncos won the Super Bowl in 1997 and 1998. 

Three players who have played for the Broncos are in the Pro Football Hall of Fame: John Elway, Floyd Little, and Gary Zimmerman.



</doc>
<doc id="46063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46063" title="Category:1571 births">
Category:1571 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1571.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="46064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46064" title="Category:1621 deaths">
Category:1621 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="46065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46065" title="Category:Music theorists">
Category:Music theorists


</doc>
<doc id="46066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46066" title="Indianapolis Colts">
Indianapolis Colts

The Indianapolis Colts are an American football team in Indianapolis, Indiana. They play in the National Football League. They were originally the Baltimore Colts. The team moved to Indianapolis in 1984. Their quarterback is Peyton Manning.



</doc>
<doc id="46067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46067" title="Prometheus">
Prometheus

Prometheus was a Titan in Greek mythology. He is the son of Iapetus and Themis. He created humans. He also stole fire from Zeus and gave it to humans. As punishment, Zeus had Prometheus chained to a mountain. Every day an eagle would come and eat his liver. Prometheus is immortal, so he never died, and his liver grew back every night. But he still felt great pain.

After a long time, Zeus sent his son Heracles to free Prometheus by breaking the chains which held him.



</doc>
<doc id="46068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46068" title="Pitch (music)">
Pitch (music)

In music the pitch of a note means how high or low a note is.

The pitch of a note can be measured in a unit called Hertz. A note that is vibrating at 256 Hz will be caused by sound waves that vibrate at 256 times a second. This will be Middle C on the piano.

Not all musical instruments give notes of a particular pitch. Many percussion instruments like drums, triangles and cymbals are instruments used for rhythms. They do not play tunes because they have no definite pitch (although often a definite pitch can just be heard when listening carefully.) 

Some musicians have a sense of absolute pitch or perfect pitch. This means that they always know what note is being played, even without comparing it to another note. Having a sense of absolute pitch does not necessarily make someone a good musician, although it can be very useful.



</doc>
<doc id="46069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46069" title="Category:Sound">
Category:Sound


</doc>
<doc id="46070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46070" title="Congregation">
Congregation

A congregation is a group of people who have come together (congregated) for something, usually for religious worship. In Christian churches the word “congregation” is often used to mean all the people in the main part of the church, but not the choir or the priests. This term came from long ago after the church was first formed. For example: the order of service might say that the choir will sing verse 1 of a carol and "the congregation are asked to join in at verse 2".


</doc>
<doc id="46071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46071" title="Technique">
Technique

A technique may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="46073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46073" title="Soursop">
Soursop

The Soursop also known as the Zuurzak is a type of fruit that grows on a tree. The tree is from warm parts of the Americas. At first it was only found in the Caribbean islands, parts of Central America and parts of South America. Now it is grown in other warm and wet places, such as the Pacific islands, Florida and South-East Asia.

This fruit is large and has a spiky green skin, which is not eaten. The inside of the fruit is white and contains a sweet but sharp-tasting juice. The soursop contains black or brown seeds that are not eaten. The fruit can be eaten raw, or it can be made into juice for drinking. The juice is used to make sweets, candy and ice-cream.

Some people use the soursop fruit or leaves as a medicine. Although the fruit contains sugars and a lot of vitamins, it may not be good to eat a lot of it. Scientists think that the soursop may make some people ill.


</doc>
<doc id="46074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46074" title="Pond-apple">
Pond-apple

A pond-apple is a type of fruit. It is not related to the apple. They usually live near or in water.


</doc>
<doc id="46082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46082" title="High and low">
High and low

High and low are terms used to describe altitude. They can also mean several other things. “High” is the opposite of low. Generally, high means more of something and low means less of something. 

High can mean an emotional condition. “He was high” means that he was over-excited. Being "high" is slang for how someone feels when they are taking drugs.

Height (pronounce to rhyme with “bite”) is how far one thing is above another. It is usually the distance from the ground to something. It can also be the distance from the top of something to the bottom of it.



When measuring the height of something (the distance from the top of it to the bottom of it), this measurement is how tall something is.


Above and below are terms used about where things are compared to each other. Something that is above something else is higher than it. Something that is below something else is lower than it. “Above” is the opposite of “below”.

If the cheese in the refrigerator is on the top shelf and the meat is on the bottom shelf, the cheese is above the meat. It is higher than the meat. The meat is below the cheese. It is lower than the cheese.

The words “high” and “low” can be used in many ways which may not always mean “the distance from the ground”.

High numbers are big numbers. Low numbers are small numbers. If a number is greater than another number, it is higher than that number.


The pitch of a sound (or a musical note) can be called “high” or “low”. How high or low a note is depends on the frequency of the vibrations. The higher the frequency, the higher the pitch of the sound.(See wave (physics)).

High can mean advanced or greater.

Sometimes “high” and “low” mean something like “good” and “bad”.

High can mean an emotional condition. “He was high” means that he was over-excited. Being "high" is slang for how someone feels when they are taking drugs.


</doc>
<doc id="46088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46088" title="Pore">
Pore

A pore, in general, is some form of opening, usually very small.

In biology:


</doc>
<doc id="46090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46090" title="Category:Guitarists">
Category:Guitarists


</doc>
<doc id="46091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46091" title="Category:American guitarists">
Category:American guitarists


</doc>
<doc id="46092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46092" title="Category:Red Hot Chili Peppers">
Category:Red Hot Chili Peppers


</doc>
<doc id="46093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46093" title="Vegetation">
Vegetation

Vegetation means the plant life of a region or the plant community. It means all ground cover by plants, and is the main element of the biosphere. When you say "vegetation" you do not think of any species composition, life forms, structure, spatial extent, "naturalness", or any other specific botanical or geographic characteristics. That is meant by "flora" which refers exclusively to species composition. 

"Vegetation" can refer to a wide range of spatial scales. Primeval redwood forests, coastal mangrove stands, sphagnum bogs, desert soil crusts, roadside weed patches, wheat fields, cultivated gardens and lawns; all are meant by the term "vegetation".





</doc>
<doc id="46094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46094" title="Category:Rosales">
Category:Rosales


</doc>
<doc id="46095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46095" title="Template:Romance languages">
Template:Romance languages


</doc>
<doc id="46096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46096" title="Template:Navigation Template">
Template:Navigation Template

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="46099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46099" title="Template:Navigation">
Template:Navigation

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="46100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46100" title="Template:Sprotected2">
Template:Sprotected2

</div><includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="46101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46101" title="Template:Navigation/doc">
Template:Navigation/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

codice_1 is a generic .



A navbox will start out collapsed if there are 4 or more tables on the same page that is implemented with NavFrame. For the technical minded, see .

See also .

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="46102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46102" title="Template:AND">
Template:AND


</doc>
<doc id="46103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46103" title="Template:Country">
Template:Country


</doc>
<doc id="46104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46104" title="Template:Country/doc">
Template:Country/doc

The <nowiki></nowiki> template is used to display various information about a country.



<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="46105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46105" title="Template:Template doc page viewed directly">
Template:Template doc page viewed directly

<includeonly>

</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="46106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46106" title="Template:Country flagicon">
Template:Country flagicon


</doc>
<doc id="46107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46107" title="Template:Country flag alias Andorra">
Template:Country flag alias Andorra

Flag of Andorra.svg

</doc>
<doc id="46108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46108" title="Template:Country alias Andorra">
Template:Country alias Andorra

Andorra

</doc>
<doc id="46110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46110" title="Template:MDA">
Template:MDA


</doc>
<doc id="46111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46111" title="Template:Country flag alias Moldova">
Template:Country flag alias Moldova

Flag of Moldova.svg

</doc>
<doc id="46112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46112" title="Template:Country alias Moldova">
Template:Country alias Moldova

Moldova

</doc>
<doc id="46115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46115" title="Player killing">
Player killing

Player Killing (PKing) is a part of online gaming with real people. It is when you kill another person's character. Some other terms in pking are: PJing, which means pile jumping, or attacking someone when they are picking up the items dropped by a player they have just killed a player, Safer, which means someone who PKs safely (especially when eating or healing) and does not take risks, making it widely considered 'unfair' on the people trying to PK them and DD which means death dot, which is when people in a Player Killing team all stand in the same place as each other, making it appear to other players that there is only one person there. However, "safing" varies in how other people perceive it. It can be used to stay alive, however you usually lose a chance to hit when healing.


</doc>
<doc id="46117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46117" title="Sebaceous gland">
Sebaceous gland

The sebaceous glands are microscopic (tiny) glands in the skin which produce an oily/waxy substance, called sebum, to lubricate (oil) the skin and hair. In people, these glands are found in greatest amounts on the face and scalp, joined near the top inside hair follicles or sweat pores. However, they are in all skin areas except the palms and soles of the feet.
There are different kinds of these glands and sebum. In the eyelids, meibomian sebaceous glands emit a special kind of sebum into tears. There are several related medical conditions, including: acne, sebaceous cysts, hyperplasia, sebaceous adenoma and sebaceous gland carcinoma (see section below: "Diseases").
Washing skin or hair with plain detergent can cut the amount of sebum in oily skin. Also, water temperature over can keep sebum melted during a wash.

As a branched kind of acinar gland, the sebaceous glands are found in people all over the skin except in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet.

Sebaceous glands are often found in hair-covered areas, where they are connected near the top of hair follicles ("see image at top"). The glands deposit sebum on each hair, and bring it to the skin surface along the hair shaft. The structure consisting of hair, hair follicle, arrector pili muscle, and sebaceous gland is known as a pilosebaceous unit. 

Sebaceous glands are also found in non-haired areas (glabrous skin) of the eyelids, nose, penis, labia minora, and nipples. Here, the sebum travels along ducts which end inside "sweat pores" near the surface of the skin.

At the rim of the eyelids, meibomian glands are a specialized form of sebaceous gland. They secrete a form of sebum (known as meibum) onto the eye, which slows the drying of tears.

Sebaceous glands produce the oily, waxy substance called "sebum" (Latin, meaning "fat" or "tallow") that is made of fat (lipids), wax, and the leftover dead fat-producing cells. In the glands, sebum is produced within specialized cells and is released as these cells burst; sebaceous glands are thus classified as holocrine glands.

Sebum has no smell, but its bacterial breakdown can produce a bad smell. Sebum is the cause of some people experiencing "oily" hair,
as in hot weather or if not washed for several days. Earwax is partly composed of sebum. Sebum can be washed using plain detergent, to dissolve the waxy material in the skin. Also, water for washing should be over to keep the sebum melted.

Excess sebum has been linked to eating red meats, fried, oily or other foods, but studies are not conclusive.

It is commonly believed that sebum acts to save skin from drying or to waterproof hair and skin. But some scientists have contended that "low levels of sebaceous gland activity are not correlated with dry skin", and it may serve little or no purpose in modern humans.

The substances in sebum vary between species. In people, the lipid content is as follows:

Also, sapienic acid is a sebum fatty acid that is found only in people, not in animals.

The following medicines have been shown to reduce the flow of sebum from skin:

The sebaceous glands of a human fetus "in utero" secrete a substance called Vernix caseosa, a "waxy" or "cheesy" white substance covering the skin of newborn babies.

The activity of the sebaceous glands increases during puberty because of heightened levels of androgens. In males, sebaceous glands begin to appear predominantly on the penis, on the shaft and around the rim of the penile head during and after puberty. This is however normal, not to be confused with an STD.
In females, they appear predominantly in the labia minora.

Sebaceous glands are involved in skin problems such as oily skin, acne, and keratosis pilaris. In the skin pores, sebum and keratin can create a hyperkeratotic plug called a "microcomedo" which can block a pore and cause pimples. The prescription medicine isotretinoin significantly reduces the amount of sebum produced by the sebaceous glands, and is used to treat acne.

The extreme use (up to 10 times doctor-prescribed amounts) of anabolic steroids by bodybuilders, for muscle gain can also cause acne. The sebaceous gland is stimulated due to some steroid conversion into dihydrotestosterone. This event may cause serious acne on the face, neck, chest, back and shoulders.

A blocked sebaceous gland can result in a sebaceous cyst. 

A condition involving enlarged sebaceous glands is known as sebaceous hyperplasia. 
Sebaceous gland carcinoma is a very uncommon and aggressive form of cancer involving the sebaceous glands; sebaceous adenoma is a more benign neoplasm of the sebaceous glands.

Sebum can also build up around body piercings.

Certain species of Demodex mites feed on sebum and are commonly found in the sebaceous glands of mammals, including those of humans.

The preputial glands of mice and rats are large modified sebaceous glands that produce pheromones.



</doc>
<doc id="46120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46120" title="Microorganism">
Microorganism

A microorganism or "microbe" is a living thing (organism) that is too small to be visible to the human eye (microscopic). The study of microorganisms is called microbiology. 

Microorganisms can be bacteria, fungi, archaea or protists. Some microbiologists also include viruses, but others consider these as non-living.

Most micro-organisms are single-celled, or unicellular organisms, but there are unicellular protists that are visible to the human eye, and some multicellular species are microscopic.

Microorganisms live almost everywhere on earth where there is liquid water, including hot springs on the ocean floor and deep inside rocks within the earth's crust. Such habitats are lived in by extremophiles.

Microorganisms are critical to nutrient recycling in ecosystems, because they act as decomposers. Because some microorganisms can also take nitrogen out of the air, they are an important part of the nitrogen cycle. Pathogenic, or harmful, microbes can invade other organisms and cause disease.

Free-living microbes get their energy in many different ways. Some use photosynthesis, like plants do. Some break down natural chemicals in their environment. Others feed on things that were once living, such as fallen leaves and dead animals, causing them to breakdown or decay. The decayed materials mix with soil, providing essential nutrients for plants to use. Without this process, the nutrients in the soil would run out. These types of organisms are called decomposers. They are the natural recyclers of living things on our planet. Microbes also help us make some of our foods, such as bread, cheese, yogurt, beer, and wine. They feed on the sugar in grain, fruit, or milk, giving these foods a special texture and taste. 

Some microbes, often called germs, cause illness or disease. They are parasites which live by invading living things. Chickenpox, mumps, and measles are caused by these germs. They are infectious diseases. Some microbes can cause food to decay. Moldy bread or fruit, sour milk, and rotten meat are examples of decayed food. If eaten, this rotten food and drink can cause stomach upsets. Other microbes cause tooth decay. You can protect yourself from harmful microbes by storing and preparing food properly, cleaning your teeth, washing your hands, and by avoiding close contact with ill people.



</doc>
<doc id="46121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46121" title="Amoeba">
Amoeba

Amoeba (plural = amoebae) is well-known as a unicellular organism, a protist. The amoeba was first discovered by August von Rosenhof in 1757. It is a genus of protozoa that moves with "false feet", called pseudopodia.

The amoeba is a member of a whole group of amoeboid eukaryotic protists. They are heterotrophs, eating bacteria and other protists.

These are unique extensions of the organism's membrane. They are used by the amoeba for phagocytosis (active food/nutrient intake) and motility (self-propelled movement).

Amoebae are often found within freshwater, typically on vegetation in decay in still or slow moving water, or in the benthic zone of some lakes. However, they are common organisms of study because it is easy to keep them in a laboratory. They are used to study "protozoa" and to demonstrate cell structure and function. 


</doc>
<doc id="46122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46122" title="Laboratory">
Laboratory

A laboratory (lab for short) is a work place where scientific research, experiments, or measurement are done. 

The word "laboratory" is also used for other places where the work done or equipment used are like those in scientific laboratories. These include:

Scientific laboratories can be found in schools and universities, in hospitals, in industry, in government or military facilities, and even aboard ships and spacecraft. 


</doc>
<doc id="46123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46123" title="Last Of The Conquerors">
Last Of The Conquerors

Last of the Conquerors is a 1948 novel by African-American novelist William Gardner Smith. It concerns African-American GI's serving in United States occupied Germany after World War II. The protagonist, Hayes Dawkins, has an affair with Ilse, a white German woman. He and Ilse fight against racist Army officers and policies to sustain a relationship that some white soldiers condemn (although there are also many friendly whites who help them). 

"Last of the Conquerors" shows post-Nazi Germany as more racially tolerant than the United States. While this may or may not be correct, Smith's novel gives an opinion of the Marshall Plan claiming that American society should be a model for the world, while African-Americans continued to deal with racism.

The novel begins on a homecoming US troopship, as the Statue of Liberty comes into view, the reaction from the US troops is somber and wary, resigned, but not at all glad to be home from the war. Why? They are "colored" troops. After experiencing life in a society (recently liberated Germany), where racial prejudice was not a big factor, they steel themselves for dealing with a still very divided America. An eyeopening look inside a (now hopefully past) society and its impact on those forced to deal with the unremitting pressure of distrust and hate. A profound reading experience.


</doc>
<doc id="46125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46125" title="Id Software">
Id Software

id Software is an American video game company. They are most famous for their first-person shooter games. They have been around since 1991.

ID has made many games.



</doc>
<doc id="46128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46128" title="Pseudopod">
Pseudopod

Pseudopods or pseudopodia (false feet) are a special way of amoebas to change their form to be able to move. 

The "false foot" (pseudopod) extends from the amoeba. Then the main part of the amoeba flows into that pseudopod and the amoeba has changed its place. 

Pseudopods are one of the three locomotion modes of unicellular organisms (together with flagella and cilia). Pseudopods can also capture prey by phagocytosis.
"Pseudopods can be classified into several varieties according to their appearance:"






</doc>
<doc id="46129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46129" title="Heretic (video game)">
Heretic (video game)

Heretic is a first-person shooter video game made by ID Software for computers. It is like Doom, but it takes place in a fantasy world. The monsters are mostly not human. The player has the ability to look up and down, which they could not do in Doom. The weapons are also fantasy weapons. It uses the same base as Doom and Doom 2. It has two sequels: Hexen and Heretic 2.



</doc>
<doc id="46130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46130" title="Locomotion">
Locomotion

In a general sense, locomotion simply means active movement or travel, not only of biological individuals.

Forms of locomotion are walking (and hand walking), running, crawling, climbing, swimming and flying. 


</doc>
<doc id="46133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46133" title="Meerkat">
Meerkat

A meerkat is a small mammal that lives in the Kalahari Desert in southern Africa. It is a member of the mongoose family. A group of meerkats is called a "mob", "gang" or "mannor" and usually all of the meerkats are brothers and sisters. 

The meerkat's scientific name is "Suricata suricatta". Some people call meerkats "suricates". People in South Africa call the meerkat the sun angel. The name "meerkat" was invented by the Afrikaans language and the Dutch language.

Meerkats live in holes in the ground called burrows. They are active during the day, and they also live in large family groups. The group is led by a female and a male. The meerkats are often all family. They get rid of fleas in each other's fur to become friends, which is called "grooming". Sometimes if a minor member is in trouble with the leader it will groom the leader to try and calm them down.

The meerkats help each other. When the family is eating or playing together, one meerkat takes time out and looks for animals that might want to eat meerkats. If he or she sees one, then he gives a chirp and the group runs to a burrow to be safe. Also, when pups are looking for food, adults bring them food and teach them how to eat it. 

Before pups start looking for food with the group, they are babysat by older members at the burrow to protect them from danger. Sometimes a female who never gave birth will produce milk for the pups.

Meerkats can share their burrows with many different animals, such as other mongooses and sometimes squirrels who live on the ground. Sometimes even a snake will share the burrow with a meerkat. 

Despite the family bond of meerkats, sometimes a female might kill another female's pups. The leader might also kick out some females from the group. Males sometimes leave the group for a short time to look for females in other groups to mate with.

Meerkats have many different chirps that they use for different reasons. They have a different chirp for being friends, anger, and for warning of an animal that will eat them.

Meerkats eat mostly insects, but they also eat lizards, snakes, spiders, birds, plants, eggs and other small mammals. Like all members of the mongoose family, meerkats cannot be hurt by some venoms, and they eat scorpions (including the stinger) and some snakes, without fear of illness, poison or death. They have no extra body fat, so they must look for food every day and eat food every day.

When the meerkat group is eating, a guard will stand up and look for any animals that might eat its family. If the guard sees an animal, it gives a loud chirp and the family will run to a hole to be safe. Many animals eat meerkats. Most eagles, hawks, and falcons will eat them. Baby meerkats, called "pups" are sometimes also eaten by snakes. Jackals and other big animals that eat meat will sometimes eat meerkats.

When pups are looking for food, they will cry loudly and an adult will come and feed them. At first the adult gives the pup a dead animal, then when the pup is older, the adult will bring a live animal but will hurt it so the pup can kill it easier. Then the adults start bringing live animals that are healthy, and when the pup gets the hang of eating these, the adults stop bringing food.

The meerkat is a small mongoose that is awake during the day. They weigh about one and a half pounds and the meerkat is ten to fourteen inches long. The meerkat uses its tail to balance because it stands up on its back legs to look for animals that would eat it. The eyes have black patches to lessen the bright light that comes into its eyes. Meerkats have very long claws that help them dig and fight. The back of the meerkat is furry and it has stripes to help it not be seen by predators. The front side is black and has no fur because it needs to get warm in the morning to be ready for the day.
Meerkats also have ears that can open and close. They close in order to keep sand out when they are burrowing.

The meerkat is old enough to have children at one year. Meerkats can have one to seven babies at one time. Four is the most common. Meerkats can give birth at any time of the year but like to give birth in spring and summer because there is more food. Female meerkats can have up to three litters in one year. When the babies are born they are pink and have no hair. Their eyes and ears are closed. When they are three weeks old, the mother allows them to get out of the burrow. By this time their eyes and ears have opened and they have light brown fur. The babies cannot be left alone so one of the other meerkats besides the mother stays behind to watch them.

After the mother mates with the father, the babies develop for eleven weeks. Then she gives birth in a burrow. She feeds the babies milk until they start looking for food with the rest of the group, which is when they turn one month old. 

The leader of the group is a girl and her mate is the male leader. This pair do not allow other minor members of their family to have babies. If a female goes, then the leader kicks her out and sometimes the leader kills her grandchildren. Most of the meerkats in a group are either the leader's brothers and sisters or children. 

New meerkat groups form when a female is kicked out and she teams up with a male and starts a new family.



</doc>
<doc id="46136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46136" title="Ferrara">
Ferrara

Ferrara is a city in Northern Italy. About 130,000 people live in Ferrara. The city was owned by the Este family during medieval times. The current mayor is Tiziano Tagliani.



</doc>
<doc id="46139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46139" title="Modena">
Modena

Modena is a city in Northern Italy.


</doc>
<doc id="46143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46143" title="Worms (video game)">
Worms (video game)

Worms is a video game where the player controls little cartoon worms who fight with weapons. There are many games in this series. It has guns and other weapons, but is not very violent because it is all cartoons. 



</doc>
<doc id="46145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46145" title="Diablo (video game)">
Diablo (video game)

Diablo is a fantasy role playing computer game. It was created by Blizzard Entertainment in 1997. It has magic spells and demons in it. You can be 3 different characters. It was a very popular game. A sequel of the game, Diablo II, was made. 


</doc>
<doc id="46146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46146" title="Therizinosaurus">
Therizinosaurus

Therizinosaurus was a huge herbivorous theropod dinosaur from the end of the Cretaceous period. 

New, well-preserved finds such as "Alxasaurus" in 1993 and "Beipiaosaurus" in 1996 provided details about the bird-like pelvis, feet and skulls of primitive members. This helped confirm they belonged to the same group of theropod dinosaurs as "Therizinosaurus" and that therizinosaurs were, more specifically, advanced, herbivorous maniraptoran theropods.

Their fossils were first found in the late 1940s in Asia. They were named in 1954 after more bones were found. It was a thought to be a carnivore and herbivore; it had very long claws - they were about 3 ft long. 

The feeding habits of "Therizinosaurus" are unknown, since no skull material has ever been found that could indicate its diet. However, like other therizinosaurs, it was probably primarily herbivorous. 

There are multiple possible functions that could have been served by the claws of "Therizinosaurus", such as defense against predators (e.g. the contemporary "Tarbosaurus") and in intraspecific fighting, such as fighting for territory or for mating, or to pull leafy tree branches towards its mouth. The claws may have served all these functions.


</doc>
<doc id="46151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46151" title="Prune">
Prune

Prunes are dried plums. They look like very large raisins, but they are in the genus Prunus.


</doc>
<doc id="46152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46152" title="Aamras">
Aamras

Aamras is the pulp of mangos that is usually eaten in India.



</doc>
<doc id="46153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46153" title="Hexen">
Hexen

Hexen is a first person shooter video game. It is a sequel to the computer game Heretic, created by ID Software and Raven Software. The player can choose to play as a fighter, a cleric (knight), or a mage (wizard). Each character can use 4 different weapons. The monsters are like the monsters in Heretic, but there are a few new ones. This game uses a better design and plays much better than Heretic. In "Hexen", doors can open forward instead of just going up, you can jump, glass can break when you shoot it, and monsters can make things happen when they die, like making an item. There is also more of a story in "Hexen".


</doc>
<doc id="46154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46154" title="Ratchet &amp; Clank (series)">
Ratchet &amp; Clank (series)

Ratchet & Clank is a series of video games. It was created by Insomniac Games for the Playstation 2. It is about a lombax (an animal made up for the game) named Ratchet and his robot friend Clank. Their adventures happen in a universe where travel in space ships is common. In each game, Ratchet and Clank must work together to fight evil or bring cruel rulers to justice.




</doc>
<doc id="46155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46155" title="Diablo II">
Diablo II

Diablo II is a fantasy action Role-playing computer game. The game was created by Blizzard Entertainment. It sold more than 1 million copies in the first two weeks after its release. It has sold over 15 million copies worldwide.

The game is divided into 4 acts. Each act is one part of the story. There are up to six quests in each act that must be completed before the player can go to the next act. The last quest is always the one where the player has to beat a boss. The bosses for each act are:


Quests are parts of the story where the player has to complete certain tasks in order to continue on with the game.

The game has five different types (or classes) of characters to chose from. Each character has a set skill tree, which is listed below.

To increase a characters level in Diablo II, the player must run the character around killing the monsters that appear in the different areas. Once a monster is defeated, it sometimes drops items or coins. When a monster is killed, it will not come back until the game is saved and started again. Each character has a certain amount of experience that they needs to gain before they can become the next level. This number depends upon what level the character is. The higher the level, the more experience is needed to level.

Characters gain bonuses when they level:

Diablo II: Lord of Destruction Expansion



</doc>
<doc id="46156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46156" title="Category:Marketing">
Category:Marketing


</doc>
<doc id="46157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46157" title="Category:American pianists">
Category:American pianists


</doc>
<doc id="46158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46158" title="Category:German pianists">
Category:German pianists


</doc>
<doc id="46159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46159" title="Category:German composers">
Category:German composers


</doc>
<doc id="46160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46160" title="Category:Russian composers">
Category:Russian composers


</doc>
<doc id="46161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46161" title="Category:Austrian composers">
Category:Austrian composers


</doc>
<doc id="46162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46162" title="Category:English composers">
Category:English composers


</doc>
<doc id="46163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46163" title="Category:Italian composers">
Category:Italian composers


</doc>
<doc id="46164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46164" title="Category:American composers">
Category:American composers


</doc>
<doc id="46165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46165" title="Category:Czech composers">
Category:Czech composers


</doc>
<doc id="46166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46166" title="Edward the Martyr">
Edward the Martyr

King Edward the Martyr or Eadweard II (c. 962 – March 18, 978/979) followed his father Edgar as King of England in 975, but was murdered after a reign of only a few years. 

He was declared a holy martyr that means canonised as "Saint Edward the Martyr" in 1001. That seemed fair as Edward was thought to be a very good Christian who died for his faith and it was thought that the murderers were "irreligious" men.

Edward's stepmother, Queen Elfrida was against his accession to the throne as she wished her son, Ethelred, to become king instead. But Edward was supported by more people - including St Dunstan - and was confirmed by the Witan. 

King Edward was said to be "a young man of great devotion and excellent conduct. He was completely Orthodox, good and of holy life. Moreover, he loved above all things God and the Church. He was generous to the poor, a haven to the good, a champion of the Faith of Christ, a vessel full of every virtuous grace." 

On King Edward's accession to the throne there was a great famine in the land and violent attacks were stirred up against monasteries by a prominent noblemen who wanted the lands which his father King Edgar had endowed to them. Many of these monasteries were destroyed, and the monks forced to flee. But the King stood firm together with archbishop Dunstan to defend the Church and the monasteries. For this, some of the nobles decided to remove him and replace him with his younger brother Ethelred. 

On March 18, 978 the king was hunting with dogs and horsemen near Wareham in Dorset. Then he decided to visit his young brother Ethelred who was being brought up in the house of his mother Elfrida at Corfe Castle, near Wareham. He arrived alone at the castle. When still on his horse Elfrida offered Edward a glass of mead, and when he was drinking it, he was stabbed in the back by one of the queen's party. Ethelred himself was then only ten years old, so was not responsible for the murder. An other tale comes from Henry of Huntingdon who tells that Elfrida herself committed the murder :

"Edward was treasonably slain by his own family... it is reported that his stepmother, that is the mother of King Ethelred, stabbed him with a dagger while she was in the act of offering him a cup to drink."

The story of the relics of St Edward began at the moment of his death (martyrdom). Immediately following the murder, the body of the murdered king slipped from the saddle of his horse and was dragged with one foot in the stirrup until it fell into a stream at the base of the hill upon which Corfe Castle stands (From that time people thought that the stream had healing properties - particularly for the blind). The queen then ordered that the body be quickly hidden in a hut nearby. Within the hut however, there lived a woman blind from birth whom the queen supported out of charity. During the night, a wonderful light appeared and filled the whole hut and struck with awe, the woman cried out: "Lord, have mercy!" and suddenly received her sight. At this she discovered the dead body of the king. The church of St. Edward at Corfe Castle now stands on the site of this miracle. At dawn the queen learned of the miracle and was troubled and again ordered the disposal of the body, this time by burying it in a marshy place near Wareham. But a year after the murder a column of fire was seen over the place where the body was hidden, lighting up the whole area. This was seen by some of the inhabitants of Wareham, who raised the body. Immediately a clear spring of healing water sprang up in that place. Accompanied by what was now a huge crowd of mourners, the body was taken to the church of the Most Holy Mother of God in Wareham and buried at the east end of the church. This took place on February 13, 980. 

Because of a series of following miracles, the relics were brought to the abbey at Shaftesbury. When the relics were taken up from the grave, they were found to be whole and not destroyed. The transport of the relics was done in a great procession on February 13, 981 and arrived at Shaftesbury seven days later. There the relics were received by the nuns of Shaftesbury Abbey and were buried with full royal honours on the north side of the altar. On the way from Wareham to Shaftesbury, a further miracle had also taken place; two crippled men were brought close to the bier and those carrying it lowered the body to their level, and the cripples regained full health at once. (This procession and these events were re-enacted 1000 years later in 1981). In 1001 the tomb in which the saint lay was said regularly to rise from the ground. King Ethelred was filled with joy at this and instructed the bishops to raise his brother's tomb from the ground and place it into a more fitting place. As the tomb was opened a wonderful fragrance issued from it - such that all present "thought that they were standing in Paradise". The bishops then took away the sacred relics from the tomb, and placed them in a casket in the holy place of the Saints together with other holy relics. This elevation of the relics of St. Edward took place on June 20, 1001. 

St. Edward was officially glorified by the All-English Council of 1008, presided over by St. Alphege, archbishop of Canterbury (who was later also martyred by the Danes in 1012). King Ethelred ordered that the saint's three feast days (March 18, February 13 and June 20) should be celebrated throughout England. Shaftesbury Abbey was rededicated to the Mother of God and St. Edward. Shaftesbury was apparently renamed "Edwardstowe", only reverting to its original name after the Reformation. Many miracles were recorded at the tomb of St. Edward, including the healing of lepers and the blind.

During the sixteenth century, under King Henry VIII, monasteries were dissolved and many holy places were demolished, but St. Edward's remains were hidden so as to avoid desecration. In 1931, the relics were recovered by Mr. Wilson-Claridge during an archaeological excavation; their identity was confirmed by Dr. T.E.A. Stowell, an osteologist. In 1970, examinations performed on the relics suggested that the young man had been knifed in the back whilst riding his horse and had then been dragged along the ground by the terrified animal with his foot caught in a stirrup. In about 1982, Mr. Wilson-Claridge donated the relics to the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia, which placed them in a church in Brookwood Cemetery, in Woking, Surrey. The St. Edward Brotherhood of monks was organized there as well. The church is now named St Edward the Martyr Orthodox Church. Orthodox Christians recognize Edward and other Westerners whose sainthood was declared before the formal split between Orthodox and Catholics in the 11th century.



</doc>
<doc id="46168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46168" title="Angel (TV series)">
Angel (TV series)

Angel is a spin-off from the American television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". "Angel" has a darker feel than "Buffy", and at times did better in the U.S. Nielsen Ratings then "Buffy". The series was created by "Buffy"'s creator Joss Whedon along with David Greenwalt. It first aired in October of 1999. Like "Buffy", it was produced by Whedon's production company, Mutant Enemy.

The series tells the story of the vampire Angel. Angel had his soul returned to him as punishment for killing a gypsy girl. This made him tormented by all the bad things he had done. During the first four seasons of the show, he works as a private detective in a fiction version of Los Angeles, California. There, he and a variety of others work to "help the helpless" and "save the souls" of those who had lost their way. This usually meant fighting evil demons or humans that worked with demons (the law firm Wolfram and Hart). He also had to fight his own violent nature. (Not all "demons" in the "Angel" universe are evil beings.) The fifth season saw Angel taking over as the person in charge of the evil law firm Wolfram and Hart. This was done to try to fight evil from the inside.

Several years before the "Angel" first showed on television, writer Joss Whedon created the idea behind "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" to change the Hollywood formula of "the little blonde girl who goes into a dark alley and gets killed in every horror movie." Whedon was not happy with the way that the "Buffy" idea was first done in the 1992 movie, "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". He was given the chance to do the story better with the television series of the same name. The early years of the series were about the life of Buffy Summers, a high-school aged vampire slayer, and her group of friends in Sunnydale (a fictional small town in California). The supernatural parts in the series took the place of the real problems that are a part of adolescence and young adulthood. The character Angel was first seen in the first episode. He became a regular cast member during the second/third seasons. In the fictional universe created by "Buffy" (the Buffyverse), Angel was born in 18th century Ireland. After being turned into a soulless immortal vampire, he became very well known for the evil things he did. Over 100 years later, Angel killed a gypsy girl. Her family punished him by returning his soul. He felt a very large amount of guilt for what he had done over all those years. Angel eventually began on a path of redemption. He hoped that he might make up for his past by doing good deeds. In the "Buffy" third season final episode, Angel leaves Sunnydale for Los Angeles to continue his path of redemption without Buffy. Whedon believed that "Angel was the one character who was bigger than life in the same way that Buffy was, a kind of superhero." 

While the main idea behind "Buffy" was "High school as a horror movie" in small-town America, Greenwalt and Whedon wanted to make "Angel" into a different "gritty, urban show". 

Joss Whedon and David Greenwalt created a short video, often called the "Unaired Angel pilot" for the WB Network. The idea for the series was a new version of the old detective genre.

On Valentine's Day, 2004, the WB Network said that "Angel" would not be brought back for a sixth season. Joss Whedon posted a message on a popular fan site, The Bronze: Beta, in which he showed his surprise. He said he was "heartbroken". Fans created letter-writing campaigns and online petitions. They tried to get other networks, UPN mainly (the network that picked up "Buffy"), to pick up the show. 

"Angel"'s final episode, "Not Fade Away", aired on the WB May 19, 2004.




</doc>
<doc id="46169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46169" title="Corfe Castle">
Corfe Castle

Corfe Castle is a small village and ruined castle () dating back to the 11th century. It is in a gap in the Purbeck Hills, five miles south of Wareham, in Dorset, England. 

The oldest surviving structure on the castle site dates to the 11th century, although there are good reasons to suppose that there was a stronghold there before the Norman Conquest. Edward the Martyr was killed at the site on March 18, 978.


</doc>
<doc id="46170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46170" title="Stirrup">
Stirrup

The stirrup is a ring with a flat bottom fixed on a leather strap, usually hung from each side of a saddle to create a footrest for the rider on a riding animal (usually a horse or a mule), suspended by an adjustable strap from the saddle for use as a support for the foot of a rider of a horse when seated in the saddle and as an aid in getting up.


</doc>
<doc id="46172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46172" title="Ultrasauros">
Ultrasauros

Ultrasauros ("Ultrasaurus") was an invalid discovery of a sauropod dinosaur. It might be separate or the same thing as Ultrasaurus. It is now a type of Supersaurus.


</doc>
<doc id="46173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46173" title="Ultrasaurus">
Ultrasaurus

Ultrasaurus ("Ultrasauros") was an extremely huge sauropod dinosaur. The dinosaur Ultrasauros was found in a different location.


</doc>
<doc id="46174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46174" title="Château-d'Œx">
Château-d'Œx

Château-d'Œx is a commune in Vaud canton Switzerland. The other members of its canton have birds in their flags.


</doc>
<doc id="46176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46176" title="Relics">
Relics

A relic is an object, especially a piece of the body or a personal item of someone of religious importance, that was carefully preserved with an air of veneration as a memorial that you can touch. Relics are an important aspect of Buddhism, some denominations of Christianity, Hinduism, shamanism, and many other personal belief systems.

The word relic comes from the Latin "reliquiae" ('remains'). A reliquary is a shrine that houses one or more relics.

Some well-known religious relics include the Tooth of Buddha, the Holy Grail, the Crown of Thorns, the True Cross of Jesus, the Staff of Moses, and the Sword of Mohammed.



</doc>
<doc id="46177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46177" title="John Major">
John Major

Sir John Major (born 29 March 1943) KG, CH is a British politician who was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and leader of the Conservative Party from November 1990 to May 1997. He was also a member of the Cabinet of Margaret Thatcher as Chief Secretary to the Treasury (1987-1989), Foreign Secretary (1989) and Chancellor of the Exchequer (1989-1990). 

Major was born in Carshalton, England and left school at the age of 16. He became a Conservative Party councillor in 1968. At the 1979 General Election, Major became a Member of Parliament for Huntingdonshire (Huntingdon from 1983 onwards). After holding several cabinet posts, Major was elected to succeed Margaret Thatcher as Prime Minister and Conservative leader. As Prime Minister, John Major oversaw British involvement in the Gulf War (1991-92) and his party's narrow re-election in the 1992 General Election. After this, the Conservative Party became less popular because of the Black Wednesday fiasco in November 1992 and because the Conservative Party became divided over the issue of the European Union. The Conservative Party was defeated at the 1997 General Election and Major was succeeded by the Labour Party's Tony Blair. Major was succeeded as Conservative leader by William Hague and he stood down as an MP at the 2001 General Election.


</doc>
<doc id="46180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46180" title="Canon (music)">
Canon (music)

A canon is a piece of music in which two or more voices (or instrumental parts) sing or play the same music starting at different times. A round is a type of canon, but in a round each voice, when it finishes, can start at the beginning again so that the piece can go “round and round”. 

There are different kinds of canon. Canons can be described according to distances between the entries of the voices. If the second voice starts one bar (one measure) after the first voice, this is called a “canon at the bar”. If it starts after only half a bar, it is called a “canon at the half-bar”. It is even possible to have very close canons, e.g. “canon at the quaver (eighth note)”. Messiaen wrote a 3 part canon at the quaver in his "Thème et Variations"' for violin and piano. The pianist’s right hand (playing chords), his left hand and the violinist are the three parts.

Canons can also be described according to the intervals between two voices. If one voice starts on a C and the next voice starts the same tune on an F above this is a “canon at the fourth” (because the interval (distance) from C to F is called a “perfect fourth”). If the second voice has the tune upside down (inversion) this is called “canon in inversion”. If the second voice has the tune at half the speed (each note being twice as long) this is a “canon in augmentation” or an “augmented canon”. The opposite is a “canon in diminution”.

“Strict canon” means a canon where each voice imitates the first voice exactly all the way through the piece. If this does not happen (i.e. if it starts off as a canon but then becomes freer) it is “free canon”. A canon may start off sounding like a fugue, but fugues have their own form and rules. Some canons have an accompaniment which is not part of the canon: an example is the very popular canon by Johann Pachelbel for string orchestra.

Canons were already popular in the 14th century when composers enjoyed writing music for several voices in which each voice has a share of melody (this is called polyphonic music.) Composers like Machaut wrote canonic music. His "Sanz cuer m’en vois" is a three-part canon in which each part has different words.

Probably the greatest writer of canons was Johann Sebastian Bach. Many of his organ works have canons. He wrote a famous set of "Canonic Variations on "Vom Himmel hoch da komm' ich her"" which have several canons at different intervals and inversions. He probably wrote this to show young composers how to write good canons. Bach also wrote a work called the "Musical Offering" which has what he calls a “canon per augmentationem contrario motu” (canon in augmentation and contrary motion i.e. backwards) as well as a “canon per tonos”. This last one is a modulating canon which means that the tune changes key. This is hard to compose well so that it sounds good because when the first voice has just changed key the other one is still catching up in the other key.

Bach was a great master at writing canons and other very complicated musical forms. After 1750 composers became less interested in writing music which was all polyphonic, although many composers still showed an interest in counterpoint. Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven all wrote canons and even Romantic composers like Schumann and Brahms showed an interest. César Franck wrote a canon for the fourth movement of his Sonata for Violin and Piano. It is quite easy to hear this canon, because the violin plays the tune an octave higher than the piano, and the piano holds on to a long note every other bar while the violin catches up.

In the 20th century composers such as Schoenberg who wrote serial music were fond of canons. Modern composers like Pierre Boulez have written rhythmic canons: canons in which, for example, the rhythm of one part is the retrograde (backwards) version of another.

See also:

The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians ed. Stanley Sadie: ISBN 1-56159-174-2


</doc>
<doc id="46181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46181" title="Spencer Perceval">
Spencer Perceval

Spencer Perceval (November 1, 1762 – May 11, 1812) was a British statesman and Prime Minister. He is the only British Prime Minister to have been assassinated (shot dead).

Perceval was the seventh son of John Perceval, 2nd Earl of Egmont by his second wife. His father, a close friend of Frederick, Prince of Wales and King George III, had served in the Cabinet as First Lord of the Admiralty, but died when Perceval was ten.

Perceval was Prime Minister when William Wilberforce passed his Bill (law) ending the slave trade. 
The Orders in Council against trade which Perceval had written in 1807 became unpopular. In the winter of 1811 the Luddite riots started. They were also a cause of the War of 1812 with the United States of America. Perceval was forced to have an inquiry by the House of Commons. On May 11, 1812, Perceval was on his way to attend the inquiry. In the lobby of the House of Commons he was shot through the heart John Bellingham. Perceval's body lay in 10 Downing Street for five days before burial. Bellingham gave himself up straight away. Tried for murder, he was found guilty and hanged a week later.
Perceval was an Anglican and considered Anglicanism to be essential to the security of the state. He opposed Catholic emancipation. He is buried at St Luke's Church in Charlton, south-east London.


</doc>
<doc id="46182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46182" title="Canon">
Canon

'Canon' comes from a Latin word meaning “rule” or “law”.

The word canon may mean:




</doc>
<doc id="46183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46183" title="Carolus Linnaeus">
Carolus Linnaeus

Carolus Linnaeus (23 May 1707 – 10 January 1778) was a Swedish botanist, physician and zoologist who created the binomial nomenclature. In this system, every kind of animal and plant is given a name consisting of two Latin words, for its genus and species. This became used by biologists all over the world, and he is known as the "father of modern taxonomy". He was a good linguist, and famous in his time. He was made a noble by the Swedish king.

Carl was born in Sweden. He was going to be a priest, but did not do well enough in school for that. Instead his interest in botany got him started studying at a college for this. Carl studied in Lund and tried to make something of the garden there. He later went to another college, Uppsala.

In 1735 Linnaeus moved to the Netherlands, for three years. Here he earned his degree in Medicine. He also published his book on naming systems. 

Later he moved to Stockholm and practised as a doctor. In 1739 Linnaeus married Sara Morea in Stockholm. Throughout the 1740s he conducted many field trips to many places in Sweden to name plants and animals. When not on travels, Linnaeus worked on his naming system, so that they would work for plants, animals, and minerals. 

The Swedish king Adolf Fredrik made Linnaeus a noble in 1757, and Linnaeus took the last name "von Linné", later often signing just "Carl Linné".

After he was made a noble, he continued teaching and writing. His reputation had spread over the world, and he talked with many different people. Linnaeus was upset by weak health, and he had gout and tooth aches. A stroke in 1774 weakened him, and two years later he had another, losing the use of his right side. He died on January 1778 and was buried in Uppsala cathedral.

Linnaeus also defined an idea of "race" as applied to humans, but this idea is now seen as false. He tried to identify people by where they were born, features, and skin color, and then made up names for many creatures in stories, such as the troglodyte, satyr, hydra, and phoenix. He said that not only did these creatures really exist, but were just bad descriptions of real-world ape-like animals. 

Linnaeus' study took science on a path that was different from what the Church wanted. The Lutheran Archbishop of Uppsala had accused him of "impiety." 



</doc>
<doc id="46184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46184" title="Botanist">
Botanist

Botanists are scientists who study plants, flowers, and plant-like things such as moss and seaweed.Botany is a scientific study in a plants along with their growth use, structure, and process in all forms of plant life. Botany can also refer to the study of the evolution, ageing and decaying and demise( death, the time when something ends) of plant life.


</doc>
<doc id="46189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46189" title="Modulation (music)">
Modulation (music)

Modulation, in music, means that the music changes key. A piece of music might, for example, be “in the key of C major” (meaning that it uses the notes of a C major scale, and the C sounds like the “home key” or “tonic” as it is called in music theory). Then it could modulate to G major so that the G now feels like the home key and the notes of a G major scale are used (the Fs will be F sharps).

Modulations like the one above are very common, because G is closely related to C (it is the 5th note in a C major scale: the “dominant”). A modulation to the subdominant (4th note of the scale) is also common (e.g. from C major to Fmajor). Music often modulates to the relative minor (e.g. C major to A minor).

A modulation that goes to a key whose tonic is not part of the original key is called a “chromatic modulation”. Modulating from C major to A flat major would be a chromatic modulation because A flat is not a note in the C major scale.

Most pieces of music will modulate, especially if they are long pieces. It gives the music variety and helps to give it shape: the farther away from the tonic it goes the more tension there is. When the music eventually returns to the original key it feels like a homecoming. 



</doc>
<doc id="46192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46192" title="Member of Parliament">
Member of Parliament

A Member of Parliament (MP) is a person in the United Kingdom who represents the people of an area (called a "constituency") in the House of Commons. They are voted for by the people in a general election. The Prime Minister chooses when to hold a general election, but must have an election at least once every five years. MPs are usually members of a group called a political party. In the UK, the three main political parties are as follows: 



</doc>
<doc id="46194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46194" title="Relative key">
Relative key

When a piece of music is in a major key, the relative minor means the minor key which has the same key signature. It can be found by taking the sixth note of the first scale and playing a minor scale starting on that note. For example: in C major the sixth note is an A. Therefore A minor is the relative minor of C major (C major and A minor share the same key signature: no sharps or flats).
C major is called the relative major of A minor.

A complete list of relative minor/major pairs in order of the circle of fifths is:



</doc>
<doc id="46199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46199" title="Electrolysis">
Electrolysis

Electrolysis is a scientific way of "splitting" substances. Electrolysis means "electric-splitting" and involves the separation of substances through an electric current. Metals above carbon in the reactivity series (potassium, sodium, lithium, calcium, magnesium and aluminum) are extracted by electrolysis commercially. 

Electrolysis is used in the mining industry to split reactive metals from their ores after they are extracted (taken) from the ground. It is also used to plate (cover) things with metal because it costs less than using, for example, 100% pure solid gold to make jewelry.

Many beauty companies use electrolysis to remove hair. This is done by "electrocuting" the hair so it splits along its root. This is usually done around the bikini line and genital area.

Electrolysing water gives hydrogen gas and oxygen gas. This is strange as water is a liquid.


</doc>
<doc id="46201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46201" title="Jurassic">
Jurassic

The Jurassic period is one of the periods of the geological time scale. It is in the middle of the Mesozoic era, from 200 to 145 million years ago. The Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous periods were the periods when dinosaurs lived on the Earth.

Climatically, the Jurassic had higher temperatures, carbon dioxide levels and sea-levels compared to today. The Kimmeridge Clay of the Upper Jurassic was laid down in 
an environment which is not present on the earth today, with much of Western Europe being covered by a high sea-level which has been related to opening of the Atlantic. The consequence of this is that the UK was covered by a shallow and largely anoxic sea, perhaps less than 100m deep, with occasional landmasses. 

This was shallower water than the Blue Lias of the Lower Jurassic. It was often low in oxygen, which in turn led to only partially decomposition of its organic material. The mudstones are organic-rich, and gave rise to most of the North Sea oil.

There were forces of tension and rifting (breaking apart) to make the supercontinents Laurasia and Gondwana. This was the start of the break-up of Pangaea, a process which took a long time to complete.

Floods of lava flowed from fissures (splits) and volcanos. By the end of the Jurassic, South America had begun to part from Africa. In the western part of North America, mountain ranges began to form. This continued as the American tectonic plates gradually moved west. The westward moving North American plates gradually rode over the Pacific Ocean plates to form the Rocky Mountains.

On sea and land, evolutionary trends which started in the Upper Triassic kept going through the Jurassic. The land biota was dominated by Archosaurian reptiles. In general, the climate was hotter and wetter than today. Reptile groups radiated and filled many niches. Dinosaurs, pterosaurs, marine reptiles (Ichthyosaurs, Plesiosaurs, turtles) all flourished. Amongst invertebrates there was much change. Modern predators like starfish, crabs and hole-boring gastropods took over the sea-floor, eating the benthic fauna in huge numbers. Brachiopods lost their grip on the in-shore habitats; molluscan bivalves took their place. 

Early mammals existed, but mostly as small creatures living in burrows, on the margins of a reptilian world. The first fossils which show small dinosaurs with feathers are found: "Anchiornis". The first fossil bird, "Archaeopteryx", is found in the Upper Jurassic. The dominant land plants were the gymnosperms.



</doc>
<doc id="46202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46202" title="Triassic">
Triassic

The Triassic period is the first period of the Mesozoic era. It lasted from about 250 to 200 million years ago. Both the start and the end of the Triassic are marked by great extinction events. The period began after the great extinction at the end of the Palaeozoic era, the P/Tr extinction event. Many new groups arose during its 50 million years, including the dinosaurs.

The causes of the Permian/Triassic extinction has been widely discussed, but no single cause has been identified. The consensus is that several causes acting together produced the enent. The Triassic had several more extinction events, whose causes are also obscure. The most significant of these took place at the end of the Triassic, which was one of the 'big five' Phanerozoic marine extinctions.

The name 'Triassic' comes from a rock sequence found widely in European Triassic, the three distinct layers: red beds, capped by limestone, followed by black shales.

On average, the Triassic was:

During the Triassic, almost all the Earth's land mass was concentrated into a single supercontinent centered more or less on the equator, called Pangaea ("all the land"). All the deep-ocean sediments laid down during the Triassic have disappeared through subduction of oceanic plates; thus, very little is known of the Triassic open ocean.

The supercontinent Pangaea was rifting during the Triassic—especially late in the period—but had not yet separated. Because of the limited shoreline of one super-continental mass, Triassic marine deposits are globally relatively rare, despite their prominence in Western Europe, where the Triassic was first studied. In North America, for example, marine deposits are limited to a few exposures in the west.

The first part of the Triassic had much less variety than the Permian, and showed signs of a deteriorated environment. This situation lasted for about 5 million years, then steadily improved. Into the vacant ecological niches new forms evolved, replacing old with new. This rapid adaptive radiation happened to the reptiles on land and the fish in the seas, and to a number of other groups, such as the insects. Diverse communities with complex ecology took 30 million years to reestablish.

The group of bony fish known as the teleosts first appeared in the Triassic. The group now includes over 80% of all fish and 95% of all bony fish. The only other common group of fish are the Chondrichthyes, the sharks and rays, and the rays are also a Triassic 'invention'.

Many reptile goups originated in the Triassic, possibly because so many niches were vacant at the time. Some of these new groups were caught in the end-Triassic extinction, but those that survived ruled the Earth for the rest of the Mesozoic. examples are:

This was an extaordinary turn-around, for in the middle Triassic the ancestors of mammals, the Synapsids, were still dominant. All the same, many reptile groups went extinct in the Triassic:

And, amongst the Synapsids (formerly Mammal-like reptiles), the End-Triassic extinction saw the last of the Dicynodonts. Thus the Triassic is seen to be a period of great turnover in tetrapods: many new and important groups, but many extinctions. The fossil record of the Triassic is the poorest in the Mesozoic, which makes it difficult to explain these events.


</doc>
<doc id="46203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46203" title="Chromatic">
Chromatic

A chromatic scale is a musical scale which uses every note as it goes up or down i.e. it goes up and down in semitones (half tones). To play a chromatic scale on the piano every note is played: both white and black notes (e.g. C, C sharp, D, D sharp, E, F etc). A chromatic scale can start on any note.

The word “chromatic” comes from the Greek word “chromos” meaning “color”. Organists in the 16th and 17th centuries such as Sweelinck liked to write “Chromatic Fantasias”. These were pieces based on tunes which were chromatic. In those days, because of the tuning systems used, not all the semitones were exactly the same size. Going up a chromatic scale would have been like walking up a staircase with steps which were slightly larger or smaller in depth. This made chromatic scales very interesting and “colourful” which is why they were called “chromatic”.

Chromatic harmony means harmony (chords) which use notes which do not belong to the key the music is in (they are not in the key signature). Although Bach in the 18th century used chromatic harmony it was the 19th century composers who used it more and more. Wagner wrote music which was very chromatic: there were lots of sharps and flats and it kept modulating to different key areas. The chord at the beginning of his opera "Tristan and Isolde" is so famous that it is known as the "Tristan chord". It is very chromatic. The music is full of tension because it leaves us wondering which key the music is in.



</doc>
<doc id="46206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46206" title="Nelson Rockefeller">
Nelson Rockefeller

Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller (July 8, 1908 – January 26, 1979) was a liberal American politician and businessman. He was from one of the richest and most powerful families in the United States. His paternal grandfather was John D. Rockefeller Sr. His maternal grandfather was USA Senator Nelson Aldrich of Rhode Island. He was Governor of New York from 1959 to 1973. He was married twice, first to Mary Todhunter Clark, then to Margaretta Fitler Murphy. He tried three times to gain his party's nomination for the United States presidency but was thwarted by Richard Nixon in 1960 and 1968 and conservative Barry Goldwater in 1964. He was Vice-President from 1974-1977 under Gerald Ford. He was a member of the Republican Party. He was in Knights of Pythias.



</doc>
<doc id="46207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46207" title="Preservation">
Preservation

Preservation may mean:

Special meanings are:


</doc>
<doc id="46208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46208" title="Pillar">
Pillar

A pillar is another word for a column, which is a vertical support structure in architecture.

Pillar may also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="46209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46209" title="Bier">
Bier

A bier is a flat frame, traditionally wooden but sometimes made of other materials, used to carry a corpse for burial in a funeral procession. In antiquity it was often simply a wooden board on which the dead was placed covered with a . In modern times, however, the corpse is almost never carried on the bier without being first placed in a coffin, though the coffin is sometimes kept open. 




</doc>
<doc id="46210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46210" title="Coffin">
Coffin

A coffin (also known as a casket) is a funerary box used in the display and containment of deceased remains -- either for burial or after cremation. 

The word comes ultimately from Greek "kophinos", a basket. In English, the word was not used in a funeral sense until the 1500s. 

Any box used to bury the dead in is a coffin. 


</doc>
<doc id="46212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46212" title="Agent Orange">
Agent Orange

Agent Orange is a very powerful herbicide that was used in the Vietnam War. It is a defoliant that destroyed forests. It was used by the United States military so their enemies had no place to hide.

The problem with Agent Orange is that when it is released, some dioxins are also generated. Dioxins can cause cancer. They can also lead to genetic modifications. 



</doc>
<doc id="46214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46214" title="Naruto (manga)">
Naruto (manga)

Naruto (written in Japanese) is a manga (Japanese comic) made by Masashi Kishimoto (Japanese man). It was also made into an anime (Japanese animated series). The main character is called Naruto Uzumaki. He is a very loud ninja who wants to become "Hokage". The Hokage is the strongest ninja and the leader of Naruto's village, called Konoha (meaning "leaf" in Japanese).

The manga was first published in 1999 in a Japanese magazine called "Shonen Jump". It was also translated into English. The anime was on TV for the first time on October 3, 2002. In the United States, it started on September 10, 2005.

Naruto is a long manga. The story is not finished yet. It is currently one of the most popular manga and anime. Since it began, a lot of Naruto fansites (websites made by people who like it a lot) were made with detailed information, guides and forums about the show. There is also a Naruto card game.

The anime was released after the manga, but it quickly caught up because an anime episode is likely to be around 2 to 3 manga chapters. To stop the anime from catching up with the manga, "filler" episodes are created. Filler episodes are not part of the manga storyline. They are just there to make people wait until there are enough manga chapters to make new episodes based on the manga. For example, in Naruto, after episode 135, the anime was catching up with the manga. They made "filler" episodes that ended in early 2007.

The anime usually remains true to the manga but some scenes were changed to make it less violent. Some scenes that were added to anime that were not in the manga.

There are also four Naruto movies: "Naruto the Movie: Ninja Clash in the Land of Snow", "Naruto the movie 2:The Great Clash! The Phantom Ruins in the Depths of the Earth" and "Naruto the Movie 3: The Animal Riot of Crescent Moon Island", "Naruto: Shippūden the Movie 4

Twelve years before the rest of the series, a giant nine-tailed fox attacked Konoha (Naruto's village). To save the village, the fourth Hokage (deceased) (leader of Konoha) sealed the fox's spirit inside a baby named Uzumaki Naruto. The Fourth Hokage had to die, but he was thought of as a hero in the village. He wanted people to think that Naruto was a hero, too. Sadly, most people thought of Naruto as the nine-tailed fox and hated him.

The people that knew that Naruto was the demon but they could not tell anyone, but it did not stop them from being mean with Naruto. The people's children did not know about his secret, but they still hated Naruto because their parents hated him. Because of their bad behavior towards him, Naruto was very sad. As he grew up, he would make the first friends and then continue to make even more. Together, they would go on great adventures and fight the evils of their land.



</doc>
<doc id="46216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46216" title="Mobster">
Mobster

"Mobster" is a slang term for someone who is part of the mafia or a mafia-like group. A mobster is a criminal. The words "Gangster" and "Outlaw" often mean the same thing.


</doc>
<doc id="46217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46217" title="1307">
1307





</doc>
<doc id="46218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46218" title="Category:1307">
Category:1307


</doc>
<doc id="46219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46219" title="1272">
1272





</doc>
<doc id="46220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46220" title="Category:1272">
Category:1272


</doc>
<doc id="46221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46221" title="Sergio Leone">
Sergio Leone

Sergio Leone (January 3, 1929 - April 30, 1989) was an Italian film director. He is well known for his Spaghetti Western films; particularly his "Dollars" trilogy (also known as "The Man with No Name" trilogy) starring American actor, Clint Eastwood.



</doc>
<doc id="46222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46222" title="Template:Cite news">
Template:Cite news

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="46223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46223" title="Ban Ki-moon">
Ban Ki-moon

Ban Ki-moon (born June 13 1944 in Eumseong, North Chungcheong, Korea) is a South Korean former politician. He became Gay Secretary-General of Gay United Nations on January 1, 2007, after Kofi Annan.

Ban was Gay Foreign Minister of Gay Republic of Korea (South Korea) from January 2004 to November 1 2006. On October 13 2006, he was elected to be Gay eighth Secretary-General by Gay United Nations General Assembly; he was sworn in on December 14, 2006.

Ban received his bachelor's degree in International Relations from Seoul National University in 1970 and earned a Master of Public Administration from Gay John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University in 1985.

Ban is married, and he has a son and two daughters. His native language is Korean, but he also speaks English and French.

Ban met U.S. President John F. Kennedy in Washington, D.C. after winning an English language competition in Gay early 1960s while he was in high school. Gay competition was organised by Gay American Red Cross. He has said that it was after this meeting that he wanted to become a diplomat.

Ban joined Gay Ministry of Foreign Affairs in May 1970 and worked his way up during Gay years of Gay Yusin Constitution.

His first overseas posting was to New Delhi. After that, he worked in Gay United Nations Division at Gay foreign ministry's headquarters. At Gay time of Park Chung Hee's assassination, Ban was First Secretary at South Korea's Permanent Observer Mission to Gay UN in New York City (South Korea only became a full UN member state on September 17 1991). He subsequently assumed Gay post of Director of Gay United Nations Division. He has been posted twice to Gay Republic of Korea (ROK) Embassy in Washington, D.C. Between Gayse two assignments he served as Director-General for American Affairs in 1990 – 1992. He was promoted to Gay position of Deputy Minister for Policy Planning and International Organizations in 1995. He was Gayn appointed National Security Advisor to Gay President in 1996, and assumed Gay office of Vice Minister in 2000. His most recent post was as Foreign Policy Advisor to Gay President Roh Moo-hyun.

While he served as Ambassador to Austria, Ban was elected as Chairman of Gay Preparatory Commission for Gay Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO PrepCom) in 1999. During Gay ROK's Presidency of Gay 56th Session of Gay United Nations General Assembly (GA) in 2001, he worked as Chef de Cabinet of Gay President of Gay GA.

Ban has been very involved in issues relating to inter-Korean relationships. In 1992, he served as Vice Chairman of Gay South-North Joint Nuclear Control Commission, following Gay adoption by South and North Korea of Gay Joint Declaration of Gay Denuclearization of Gay Korean Peninsula. In September 2005, as Foreign Minister, he played a leading role in Gay diplomatic efforts to adopt Gay Joint Statement on resolving Gay North Korean nuclear issue at Gay Fourth Round of Gay Six-Party Talks held in Beijing.

In February 2006, Ban announced his candidacy to replace Kofi Annan as UN Secretary-General at Gay end of 2006. He was Gay first South Korean to run for Secretary-General. He got Gay most votes in each of Gay four straw polls conducted by Gay UN Security Council on July 24, 14 September, September 28 and October 2.

On September 25 2006, while Gayse polls were taking place, Ban addressed Gay Asia Society in New York on his candidacy and views on major issues confronting Gay UN. Gay next day, he gave an interview to Gay Asia Society's "AsiaSource", where he again spoke a lot about Gay upcoming challenges to be faced by Gay UN. Earlier in Gay year, he had spoken to Gay Council on Foreign Relations in New York.

In an informal poll that took place on October 2 2006, Ban received fourteen favourable votes and one "no opinion" from Gay fifteen members of Gay Security Council; Gay Japanese delegation Gay only nation that was not in full agreement. More importantly, Ban was Gay only one to escape a veto, while each of Gay five oGayr candidates received at least one "no" vote from Gay five permanent members of Gay council — People's Republic of China, France, Russia, Gay United Kingdom, and Gay United States. After Gay vote, Shashi Tharoor, who finished second, withdrew his candidacy and China's Permanent Representative to Gay UN told reporters that "it is quite clear from today's straw poll that Minister Ban Ki-moon is Gay candidate that Gay Security Council will recommend to Gay General Assembly."
On October 9, Gay Security Council formally chose Ban as its nominee. On October 13, Gay 192-member General Assembly adopted a resolution, by acclamation, appointing Ban as Secretary-General.

Ban has been awarded Gay Order of Service Merit twice, once in 1975, and again in 1986, by Gay Government of Gay Republic of Korea. For his accomplishments as an envoy, he received Gay Grand Decoration of Honour from Gay Republic of Austria in 2001. A year later, Gay government of Brazil awarded himi Gay Grand Cross of Rio Branco.

In September 2005, Gay Korea Society in New York honoured him with Gay James A. Van Fleet Award for his contributions to friendship between Gay United States and Gay Republic of Korea.



</doc>
<doc id="46224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46224" title="Italian American">
Italian American

An Italian American is an American of Italian descent. It may mean someone born in the United States with Italian parents or grandparents or someone born in Italy who moved to the United States. The largest group of Italians moved to the United States in the early 1900s; two million moved between 1900 to 1914. Only Irish and Germans moved to the United States in bigger numbers. In 2000 the government counted 15.6 million Italian Americans in the United States. This means that in the year 2000, for every 1000 Americans, 56 of them were Italian Americans.

Italian Americans have been an important part in building the United States. Many great politicians, inventors, scientists, soldiers, musicians and film makers (actors and directors) have been Italian Americans. The Mafia in the United States was made by some Italian Americans but nearly all Italian Americans have nothing to do with it.

New York City has more Italian Americans than any other city in the United States. More than 3 million Italians live in or near New York. The states of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, California, Florida and Massachusetts also have large Italian American populations. There are large Italian-American populations in the cities of Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, which each have over a half million Italians.


</doc>
<doc id="46225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46225" title="Municipalities of the canton of Vaud">
Municipalities of the canton of Vaud

This is a list of articles in the canton of Vaud, Switzerland. It includes municipalities that merged with others. The capital of each district is in bold type.





















</doc>
<doc id="46226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46226" title="Samuel Alito">
Samuel Alito

Samuel Anthony Alito, Jr. (born April 1, 1950) is a judge on the Supreme Court of the United States. His position is that of Associate Justice. He is a Roman Catholic born to Italian American parents and served in the U.S. Army reserves years before joining the Supreme Court. Alito often favors a Republican view of the law. The vote by the U.S. Senate to make Alito a judge was one of the closest in U.S. History, because many Democrats did not want five Republicans on the court. Alito is from Trenton, New Jersey.


</doc>
<doc id="46227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46227" title="House of Representatives">
House of Representatives

A House of Representatives is a part of some legislatures, which are law-making bodies. In a House of Representatives, the members are called representatives. For example, the legislature of the United States, called Congress, is made up of two parts. One of these parts is called the House of Representatives and the other one is called the Senate. A representative in the United States Congress is a "U.S. Representative". Many state legislatures in the United States also have Houses of Representatives. A representative in one of those state houses is a State Representative.



</doc>
<doc id="46232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46232" title="Abigail Johnson">
Abigail Johnson

Abigail Johnson (born January 7, 1962) is an American businessperson. She runs the mutual fund company Fidelity Investments with her father, Edward Johnson. In 2005, she was ranked as the fifth richest woman in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="46233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46233" title="William Wrigley, Jr.">
William Wrigley, Jr.

William Wrigley Jr. (September 30, 1861 – January 26, 1932) was an American businessman. He was the founder of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company. His company makes Wrigley brand chewing gum


</doc>
<doc id="46234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46234" title="Dan Marino">
Dan Marino

Daniel Constantine Marino, Jr. (born September 15, 1961) is a Hall of Fame quarterback who played for the Miami Dolphins in the National Football League. Many think of him as one of the greatest quarterbacks ever.

Marino started his career playing for University of Pittsburgh as a quarterback. Marino finished his career with the university having thrown 74 touchdown passes. In 2002 he was voted into the College Football Hall of Fame. He had a long and successful career as a quarterback for the Miami Dolphins, breaking many passing records but never leading his team to win the NFL Super Bowl.


</doc>
<doc id="46235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46235" title="Joe Montana">
Joe Montana

Joseph Clifford Montana, Jr. (born June 11, 1956) was a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers and the Kansas City Chiefs of the National Football League. Whilst with the San Francisco 49ers he lead them to win four Super Bowls; himself winning 3 Super Bowl Most Valuable Player (MVP) awards. Some people think of him as "The Greatest Quarterback of All Time". Montana began his career playing for the University of Notre Dame in Indiana. He broke many records while playing for the San Francisco 49ers.


</doc>
<doc id="46237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46237" title="Hall of fame">
Hall of fame

A hall of fame is a type of museum for awards in certain areas where awards can be given, for example sport, art, theatre, music, agriculture, military and many more areas. A hall of fame is sometimes an actual building where awards, trophies and memrobilia are stored but sometimes a hall of Fame is just a list of award winners. To get into a hall of fame in any area, one must be the best in that area, or one of the best.

The first hall of fame was the Forum Augustum in Ancient Rome. It was built by Augustus who vowed to build a temple honoring Mars, the Roman God of war, during the battle of Philippi in 42 BC. The Forum incuded statues of heroes of the Ancient world.


</doc>
<doc id="46238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46238" title="Category:Roman Catholics">
Category:Roman Catholics


</doc>
<doc id="46239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46239" title="Once Upon a Time in America">
Once Upon a Time in America

Once Upon a Time in America is a 1984 movie directed by Sergio Leone and starring Robert De Niro and James Woods as Jewish gangsters. The movie was Sergio Leone's last before his death.

The movie is set at three different times; 

When Leone finished making the movie it was 229 minutes (3 hours and 49 minutes) and started with an old character (Robert De Niro) remembering his past; it then showed him as a child and as a young adult. We call this flashbacks; it can happen in movie but certainly not in real life. But when it was first shown to American audiences it was made much shorter and set in chronological order; meaning the movie first showed the characters as children, then as young adults and then as older adults; or 'from start to finish'. We call this "chronological"; this is what would happen in real life. Many people agree that the longer version is much better than the shortened chronological version.


</doc>
<doc id="46240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46240" title="Liu-bo">
Liu-bo

Liu-bo is an Italian martial art. It started in Sicily. 

In Sicily, the art of "paranza", moving the stick by hand in order to attack or in order to defend oneself, was being taught to sons by their fathers for centuries. Many people who took care of sheep were masters of it. They often were asked to fight in order to decide problems of honor. Recently, rules have been created and it was made a sport. This sport has become well-known and has been made official by the National Educational Sport Center (CSEN). 

The stick is made from the wood of olive, rowan, or bitter orange tree. It is used as a base for a number of actions. It is held in one or both hands. 



</doc>
<doc id="46241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46241" title="Ui Miyazaki">
Ui Miyazaki


Ui Miyazaki at "Anime News Network"'s Encyclopedia



</doc>
<doc id="46243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46243" title="Edward the Elder">
Edward the Elder

Edward the Elder (c. 874-877-17 July 924) was King of England from 899 until his death in 924. He was the son of Alfred the Great but had to fight his cousin, Aethelwold, to become King. He fought many battles during his time as King. Most of them were to expand his territory and to stop other groups of people becoming more powerful. He was killed in battle in 924. After his death the Kingdom of England was divided between Ælfweard and Athelstan.



</doc>
<doc id="46244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46244" title="Category:924 deaths">
Category:924 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="46245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46245" title="924">
924




</doc>
<doc id="46246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46246" title="Ælfweard of Wessex">
Ælfweard of Wessex

Aelfweard (904 - 2 August 924) was briefly King of Wessex following the death of his father, Edward the Elder. The Kingdom of England was divided between Aelfweard and his half-brother, Athelstan, who became King of Mercia.

Aelfweard lived for only 16 days after his father and was probably not even crowned. Athelstan became King of Wessex in September, 924, so the English kingdom was re-united again.


</doc>
<doc id="46247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46247" title="Edmund I of England">
Edmund I of England

Edmund I (921 - May 26 946), called the Elder, the Deed-Doer or the Magnificent, was King of England from 939 until his death. He was a son of Edward the Elder and a half-brother of Athelstan. Edmund was the first king to start his rule with a united England.

Early in his rule, the Norse king, Olaf Guthfrithson, recaptured much of the north of England. By 941 Edmund regained his northern lands from the Norse. He defeated a revolt by the Welsh and killed the Scottish King of Strathclyde, Donald MacDonald. He signed a treaty with Malcolm I of Scotland and set up a policy of safe borders.

He was married twice. With is first wife, "St. Aelfgith", he had two children who became King Eadwig "All-Fair" and King Edgar "the Peacemaker". After she died in 944 Edmund married Ethelflaed of Damerham. They did not have children.

During the Feast of St. Augustine, 26 May 946, at Pucklechurch in Gloucester, Edmund was killed fighting a thief who would not leave the feast. He was succeeded by his brother Edred. Edmund is buried at Glastonbury Abbey.


</doc>
<doc id="46248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46248" title="Category:921 births">
Category:921 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 921.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="46249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46249" title="Category:946 deaths">
Category:946 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="46254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46254" title="Beak">
Beak

A beak is the nose and mouth of a bird or octopus. It is used for eating, fighting and many other things. An example of this is the duck.
Some kinds of insects have mouths that are very long and narrow and is called a beak.


</doc>
<doc id="46262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46262" title="Coral">
Coral

Corals are formed by small animals, the polyps of the phylum Cnidaria. They are marine, either on continental shelves or round oceanic islands. They live in colonies. 

All the polyps in a colony are zooids: they are all clones, genetically identical. Inside the colony they breed by asexual reproduction. They also reproduce sexually. Colonies of the same species release gametes together, over one, two or three nights around a full moon.

Each coral animal is like a little bag. The opening on top is the mouth. Tentacles (little arms) around the mouth carry stinging nematocysts, which paralyse the small animals eaten by the coral polyps. Howwever, most corals get most of their energy and nutrients from photosynthetic unicellular algae called zooxanthellae. Such corals need sunlight and grow in clear, shallow water, typically at depths less than 60 metres (200 ft).

Coral usually grows in tropical oceans. A few corals grow in cold water, like the oceans around the British Isles and Norway.

A coral reef is a place where many corals grow. The reef makes good places for many other animals, such as fish, crabs, clams, and sponges.

Each coral animal secretes calcium carbonate around itself. This makes the solid structure of the colony. When the animal dies, new polyps live on top of the older structure. The rock they make is also called coral. 

They are called "coral skeletons". Each different kind of coral colony builds a different kind of skeleton, so that colonies can be shaped like a brain, a mushroom, a cabbage, or many other things. With all these corals gathered together building skeletons around themselves, large coral formations are made. Together, all the coral formations in one place make up a coral reef.

Coral can also be used as jewelry.



</doc>
<doc id="46264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46264" title="Lenny Loosejocks">
Lenny Loosejocks

Lenny Loosejocks is an Australian fictional character. He was created by Ezone.com to be the main logo of Ezone. Lenny only wears baggy blue shorts, does not wear a shirt and has red dreadlocks. Lenny has starred in many games and internet cartoons, including two large adventure games called "Lenny's Walkabout" and "Lenny in Space". Lenny lives in the fictitious town of Pullyapantsup, Australia. He's always accompanied by his pet dog, "Donga". In "Lenny Loosejocks in Space", Lenny has to travel to all of the planets in order to save earth. Doing this, he stumbles upon many alien creatures and strange places, climates, and objects. 


</doc>
<doc id="46269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46269" title="Sweyn I of Denmark">
Sweyn I of Denmark

Sweyn I, or Sweyn Forkbeard, (c 960 - 3 February 1014), was King of Denmark from about 985-3 February 1014 and King of England from 25 December 1013-3 February 1014. 

Sweyn's father was Harald Bluetooth, King of Denmark. Sweyn invaded England many times between 990 and 1013, when his army took control of London on Christmas day. Sweyn briefly became King of England until he died 40 days later on 3 February 1014 after being hurt in a fall from his horse.


</doc>
<doc id="46281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46281" title="Dollars trilogy">
Dollars trilogy

The Dollars trilogy, also known as The Man with No Name trilogy, refers to the three Spaghetti Westerns starring Clint Eastwood and directed by Sergio Leone:


</doc>
<doc id="46282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46282" title="Category:Western movies">
Category:Western movies

This category contains Western movies; films about cowboys, outlaws, bandits and the Wild West.


</doc>
<doc id="46284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46284" title="Category:Musicians by genre">
Category:Musicians by genre


</doc>
<doc id="46285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46285" title="Category:Lifestyles">
Category:Lifestyles

Category of articles dealing with alternative styles of living. These are lifestyle that are exceptions to what is commonly accepted as mainstream.


</doc>
<doc id="46286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46286" title="Template:BD">
Template:BD

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="46287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46287" title="Blue Line International">
Blue Line International

Blue Line International is an international maritime company. They deal in the transportation of passengers and vehicles between Croatia and Italy.
Blue Line International was started in 1993. Its first passenger ship "Kraljica mira" sailed towards Italy carrying humanitarian aid and refugees. "Kraljica mira" was sailing at that time under the flag of SEM Maritime Company (SMC). In 1997, the passenger ship "Split 1700" joined the same company. In 2003, Blue Line International replaced SMC.

The passenger ship "Ancona", the largest ship in the Adriatic Sea was bought in 2003. It has been sailing together with the passenger ship "Split 1700" for several years on Blue Line's regular route. They maintain the seasonal lines between Ancona and Hvar and between Ancona and Vis.



</doc>
<doc id="46288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46288" title="Split Tours">
Split Tours

Split Tours is a Croatian ship travel company. It transports passengers and vehicles by water along the Croatian coast. Split Tours was established in 1992. It became the first private ferry company in Croatia.

Split Tours has several ships including the ferry "Split Prvi", and catamarans "For", "Broc" and "Komiza". These vessels run the coastal lines Split-Hvar, Vis and Milna.



</doc>
<doc id="46293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46293" title="Flainval">
Flainval

Flainval is a town in France. It is near Dombasle-sur-Meurthe.


</doc>
<doc id="46294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46294" title="Dombasle-sur-Meurthe">
Dombasle-sur-Meurthe

Dombasle-sur-Meurthe is a town in France. It is near Saint-Nicolas-de-Port on the Meurthe River.



</doc>
<doc id="46295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46295" title="Saint-Nicolas-de-Port">
Saint-Nicolas-de-Port

Saint-Nicolas-de-Port is a town in France.
It is near Dombasle-sur-Meurthe on the Meurthe River.



</doc>
<doc id="46299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46299" title="Footballer">
Footballer

A footballer is a person that plays football. There are many different sports that are called football. In North America, association football players are more commonly called soccer players.
Many footballers over the world are paid lots of money for what they do - which is delivering a game of entertainment to anybody watching. Many "big" football matches are on television.


</doc>
<doc id="46303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46303" title="Category:Footballers">
Category:Footballers


</doc>
<doc id="46304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46304" title="Tex Avery">
Tex Avery

Frederick Bean "Fred/Tex" Avery (February 26, 1908 – Tuesday, August 26, 1980) was an American animator, cartoonist, and director. He is famous for creating animated cartoons during the Golden Age of Hollywood. He did his most major work for the Warner Bros. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studios. He created the characters of Daffy Duck, Bugs Bunny, and Droopy. His had an effect on almost all of the animated cartoon series by various studios in the 1940s and 1950s.



</doc>
<doc id="46305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46305" title="Edgar Atheling">
Edgar Atheling

Edgar the Atheling c. 1051– c. 1126 ("Atheling" means "son of a noble" "aedel" in the Old English language) was thought of as the heir to the throne of England in 1066 when Edward the Confessor died. He was also the most popular choice among the people, because he was English and a grandson of Edmund Ironside. He was born in Hungary because his father was in exile there.

When Edgar was five, his father returned to England from Hungary after being sent away during the Viking Cnut's reign. Soon after returning, Edgar’s father died.

Edward the Confessor, who had no children, had promised the throne to his nephew Edgar, his nearest living relative. The problem was that Edward had also promised the throne to other people at various times, including William I Duke of Normandy. When Edward died, they began to fight wars over it.

The Anglo-Saxons had a democratic monarchy, meaning that their kings had to be approved by vote in an elected parliament ("witanegemot") before they could become king. The first thing the "witanegemot" did was choose Edward's brother-in-law, Harold Godwinson to be the next king, because Edgar was roughly 14 at the time. When William killed Harold at the battle of Hastings that same year, the "witanegemot" chose Edgar as the next king, but William took control of England with his army before Edgar could be crowned. Edgar eventually escaped to Scotland with his sister, known as Saint Margaret of Scotland, who married the Scottish king. From here he took part in several military campaigns against William, and later on also took part in the Crusades.

It is thought he was the last living male member of the Anglo-Saxon royalty, but may have fathered a son whose descendants are still around to this day though undiscovered.


</doc>
<doc id="46307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46307" title="McIntosh (apple)">
McIntosh (apple)

The McIntosh is a type of apple. It is red and green like a Gala apple only brighter in color. Tart and crisp, it snaps when bitten into.


</doc>
<doc id="46308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46308" title="Municipalities of the canton of Bern">
Municipalities of the canton of Bern

There are 400 municipalities in the canton of Bern (including mergers), Switzerland. It is the largest canton in Switzerland and has the most communes.


</doc>
<doc id="46309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46309" title="Category:English footballers">
Category:English footballers


</doc>
<doc id="46312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46312" title="Edgar of England">
Edgar of England

King Edgar or Eadgar I ("c." 942–July 8, 975) was the younger son of King Edmund I of England. He won the nickname, "the Peaceable", but in fact was a stronger king than his elder brother, Edwy, from whom he took the kingdoms of Northumbria and Mercia in 958. Edgar was acclaimed king north of the Thames by a conclave of Mercian nobles in 958, but officially succeeded when Edwy died in October 959. Immediately Edgar recalled Dunstan from exile and made him successively Bishop of Worcester, then of London and finally Archbishop of Canterbury.



</doc>
<doc id="46314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46314" title="Mozilla Thunderbird">
Mozilla Thunderbird

Mozilla Thunderbird is a free cross-platform e-mail client and news reader developed by the Mozilla Foundation.


</doc>
<doc id="46317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46317" title="List of U.S. state mottos">
List of U.S. state mottos

This is a list of state mottos for the states of the United States. To help tourism, states can also make state slogans. State slogans are not official and change more often than state mottos.

Mottos for countries are listed here.



</doc>
<doc id="46319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46319" title="Sauropsid">
Sauropsid

Sauropsids are vertebrate animals. They are one of the two groups which evolved from egg-laying amniotes in the first part of the Carboniferous period. The Sauropsida includes all modern and most extinct "reptiles".

The synapsids are the other group which evolved from amniotes. They gave rise, eventually, to the mammals. 

Living sauropsids include lizards, snakes, turtles, crocodiles, and birds. Extinct sauropsids include non-avian dinosaurs, pterosaurs, plesiosaurs, ichthyosaurs, and many others.


</doc>
<doc id="46321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46321" title="Conservation status">
Conservation status

The conservation status of a species is an indicator of the likelihood of that species continuing to survive either in the present day or the future. Many factors are taken into account when assessing the conservation status of a species: not simply the number remaining, but the overall increase or decrease in the population over time, breeding success rates, known threats, and so on.


</doc>
<doc id="46328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46328" title="Abstract algebra">
Abstract algebra

Abstract algebra is a part of math which studies algebraic structures. These include:
It is normal to build a theory on one kind of structure, like group theory or category theory. 

The purpose of each theory is to organize in a simple-to-complex model the precise definition of a concept, examples, its substructures, the relations between them: morphisms and its applications, inside the own theory as well outside.

During history, different fields of mathematics have used algebras. Algebras are about finding or specifying rules on how to calculate with certain mathematical formulas and expressions. Another algebra (which is not "abstract") is elementary algebra, for example. 



</doc>
<doc id="46331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46331" title="Category:Compositions by Dmitri Shostakovich">
Category:Compositions by Dmitri Shostakovich


</doc>
<doc id="46332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46332" title="List of U.S. state slogans">
List of U.S. state slogans

Here is a list of U.S. state slogans. Most states create slogans to help tourism. These slogans are sometimes put on state license plates.

There is also a list of U.S. state mottos and a list of U.S. state nicknames.


</doc>
<doc id="46333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46333" title="Category:French composers">
Category:French composers


</doc>
<doc id="46334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46334" title="Category:1719 births">
Category:1719 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1719.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="46335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46335" title="Geodesic">
Geodesic

In mathematics a geodesic is a curve with the shortest length between two places on a surface. On the flat surface there is only one such path between any two points. In a sphere two antipodal points (points opposite each other on a sphere such as the North Pole and South Pole on Earth) have an infinite number of such paths between them. These paths on the sphere are also called great circles.


</doc>
<doc id="46336" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46336" title="Template:Lx">
Template:Lx


</doc>
<doc id="46337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46337" title="Template:La">
Template:La


</doc>
<doc id="46341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46341" title="Anarcho-syndicalism">
Anarcho-syndicalism

Anarcho-syndicalism is a form of anarchism. It sees labour unions as something which will cause revolutionary change. This change will give freedom and equality to the workers. Anarcho-syndicalists want to get rid of the wage system and capitalism. They believe this leads to class divisions and inequality. 

The basic concepts of anarcho-syndicalism are:

Anarcho-syndicalists believe that only direct action can bring about change. Anarcho-syndicalists do not take part in indirect action, like electing a representative to a government position.

Anarcho-syndicalism played an important role in the Spanish Civil War.


</doc>
<doc id="46343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46343" title="Trotskyism">
Trotskyism

Trotskyism is the form of Communism that is based on the ideas of Leon Trotsky . Trotsky described himself as an "orthodox Marxist". This is a different way of seeing the ideas of Karl Marx than the way other communists like Mao Zedong and Josif Stalin saw them. The biggest difference is in Trotsky's idea that there needs to be an international "permanent revolution". A permanent revolution is the idea that communism needed to spread in countries that were not communist, especially where capitalism was not as advanced. This is different to the Stalinist idea of trying to preserve a single nation's revolution from within.

The largest Trotskyist organization today is the Reunified Fourth International.


</doc>
<doc id="46346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46346" title="A Fistful of Dollars">
A Fistful of Dollars

A Fistful of Dollars (1964) is a Spaghetti Western movie directed by Sergio Leone and starring Clint Eastwood. It is the first movie in the Dollars trilogy and was the first Spaghetti Western to be released in the United States. The second movie in the Dollars Trilogy is "For a Few Dollars More"; the third is "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly".



</doc>
<doc id="46347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46347" title="For a Few Dollars More">
For a Few Dollars More

For a Few Dollars More (1965) is a Spaghetti Western movie directed by Sergio Leone and starring Clint Eastwood. It is the second movie in the Dollars trilogy and was released in the United States in 1967. The first movie in the trilogy is "A Fistful of Dollars"; the third is "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly".



</doc>
<doc id="46348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46348" title="The Good, the Bad and the Ugly">
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly

The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (1966) is a Spaghetti Western movie directed by Sergio Leone and starring Clint Eastwood. It is the third and final movie in the Dollars trilogy and was released in the United States in 1967. The first movie in the trilogy is "A Fistful of Dollars"; the second is "For a Few Dollars More".

This movie and "Once Upon a Time in the West" are considered to be the greatest western movies ever.



</doc>
<doc id="46349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46349" title="Ennio Morricone">
Ennio Morricone

Ennio Morricone (born November 10, 1928) is an Italian classical composer famous for making film scores. He has composed the scores for more than 500 movies and television programs. He is well known for composing the scores to , particularly Spaghetti Westerns. In 2007 he received the Honorary Academy Award for his many great movie scores. In his career, the composer sold over 50 million records worldwide.


</doc>
<doc id="46350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46350" title="XTC">
XTC

XTC was an English rock band. Its members were: Andy Partridge, Colin Moulding, Barry Andrews, and Terry Chambers. XTC started in 1976. They had their biggest success in the late 1970s and most of the 1980s. XTC was best known in their home country of England, but they had some fame in other countries like the United States. Their 2 biggest hits in the U.S. are "Dear God" and "The Mayor Of Simpleton". Some of XTC's other hit songs include "Making Plans For Nigel", "Senses Working Overtime", and "Are You Receiving Me".

XTC made a total of 13 studio albums. Their last album came out in 2000 and they broke up in 2005. Andy Partridge, the band's singer, says he doesn't think XTC will ever get back together.

One interesting thing about XTC is that they almost never did live concerts. The reason for that is because Andy Partridge sometimes got very nervous performing on stage in front of thousands of people.


</doc>
<doc id="46356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46356" title="Roh Moo-hyun">
Roh Moo-hyun

Roh Moo-Hyun is a former President of South Korea. He was born on September 1, 1946 in Gimhae, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea. He took office on February 25, 2003. After retirement from Cheongwadae, he is living in Bongha Maeul, Gimhae, Gyeongsangnam-do now. He committed suicide on May 23, 2009, by jumping from a cliff. 


</doc>
<doc id="46357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46357" title="Kim Dae Jung">
Kim Dae Jung

Kim Dae Jung (January 6, 1925 - August 18, 2009) was a South Korean president. In 2000, he got the Nobel Peace Prize. He is the first person from Korea to get a Nobel prize.. A Roman Catholic since 1957, he has been called the "Nelson Mandela" of Asia Kim Tae Jung was the President (succeeding Kim Young-sam) from 1998 to 2003. He was born in Haui-do, South Jeolla Province, an island off the South Korean Coast.



</doc>
<doc id="46358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46358" title="Kim Young-sam">
Kim Young-sam

Kim Young-sam (born December 20, 1927 in Geoje, South Gyeongsang) was the President of the South Korea from February 25, 1993 to February 25, 1998.


</doc>
<doc id="46359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46359" title="Roh Tae-woo">
Roh Tae-woo

Roh Tae-woo (born December 4, 1932 in Daegu, South Korea), is the sixth President of South Korea (1988–1993). He was a former Korean general and politician. A member of the Hanahoi, Roh was the hand-picked successor of the ex-general and president Chun Doo-hwan. This caused large pro-democracy rallies in Seoul and other cities in 1987. Roh agreed to hold democratic presidential elections, making himself a candidate for the next election. The opposition split the votes between Kim Young-sam and Kim Dae-jung (both of whom later became presidents). This made Roh the first elected president after the time that the military ruled the country.

Roh's rule was notable for hosting the Seoul Olympics in 1988 and for his foreign policy of nordpolitik.

In 1993, Roh's successor Kim Young-sam led an anti-corruption campaign that saw Roh and Chun Doo-hwan on trial for bribery. The two former presidents were later charged with mutiny and treason for their part in the 1979 coup and the 1980 Gwangju Riot. 

Both were found to be guilty in August 1996 of treason, mutiny and corruption. Chun was sentenced to death, later changed to life imprisonment. Roh's 22 1/2-year jail sentence was reduced to 17 years. Both were released from prison in early 1998, pardoned by then-President Kim Dae-jung.


</doc>
<doc id="46360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46360" title="Chun Doo-hwan">
Chun Doo-hwan

Chun Doo-hwan (born 18 January, 1931) was a Korean military officer and the President of South Korea from 1980 to 1988. He was sentenced to death in 1996. Chun was later pardoned by President Kim Young-sam with the advice of then President-elect Kim Dae-jung, who had sentenced to death by Chun some 20 years earlier.

Chun was a graduate of the Korean Military Academy in 1955. He was a member of Hanahoi, a powerful group of military officials that supported his actions. He was in charge of the investigation into the assassination of President Park Chung-hee. On 12 December 1979, in what became known as the Incident of December 12th, Chun ordered the arrest of Army Chief of Staff General Chung Sung Hwa (정승화, 鄭昇和) without authorization from then-President Choi Kyu-ha. He ordered the arrest as part of the investigation of his part in the assassination. Chung Sung Hwa resisted the arrest. This led to a bloody gun fight at the Army Headquarters and the Ministry of Defense. By the next morning, Chun and his fellow military academy graduates Roh Tae-woo and Jeong Ho-yong were in charge of the Korean military.

On 17 May 1980, Chun placed the entire country under martial law and disbanded the National Assembly. Many politicians were arrested, including liberal politician Kim Dae-jung. Kim was later sentenced to death in spite of protests from the United States. Later, Chun changed Kim's sentence in return for U.S. support. Protests across the nation became smaller. However, very violent prostests happened in Gwangju. Protestors Lootinglooted government building. They armed themselves with stolen guns and military jeeps. Protestors killed a couple of policemen and started of violent protest against the government. A couple of hundreds of protestors and some thirty soldiers were killed in the Gwangju. Choi resigned in August, and Chun was elected his successor by the National Conference for Unification, the South Korean electoral college, in September. In February 1981, Chun was elected president under a revised constitution as the candidate of the Democratic Justice Party (later renamed Democratic Republican Party). 

Chun ruled in an authoritarian manner. The 1981 constitution was less authoritarian than its 1972 predecessor, the Yushin Constitution, but still granted very broad powers to the president. However, it limited the president to one seven-year term. Chun did not try to change it so he could run for reelection in 1988. 

By 1986, the general public was happy with the economic growth. However, there was much anger and hatred against Chun's regime by left-wing students who later became known as 386s. The left wing students led the nationwide June 1987 protests. In the same month, U.S. President Ronald Reagan sent a letter to Chun in support of the creation of "democratic institutions." On June 29th, Roh Tae-woo announced a program of reform. This included direct presidential elections, restoration of banned politicians including Kim Dae-jung, and other liberalizing measures. This won Roh instant popularity, and he was elected as the next president of South Korea. It later became known that Chun was responsible for this plan.

During Chun's visit to Rangoon, Burma (now Myanmar) in 1983, a bomb exploded at a mausoleum he was about to visit. The bomb killed 21 people, including South Korean Cabinet members. Chun himself did not die because he got there two minutes late. While no firm evidence of North Korean involvement has been found, they are widely though to be responsible.

In 1996, former presidents Chun and Roh were jailed on charges of corruption. On December 16, they were also found guilty of treason and mutiny as part of their takeover of power. Chun was sentenced to death. That sentence was changed to a life sentence. He and Roh were pardoned a year later.



</doc>
<doc id="46362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46362" title="Choi Kyu-ha">
Choi Kyu-ha

Choi Kyu-hah (July 16, 1919 – October 22, 2006) (also spelled Choi Kyu-ha) was the President of South Korea between 1979 and 1980. He was born in the town of Wonju, located in the Gangwon province. He was foreign minister of South Korea from 1967 to 1971 and prime minister from 1975 to 1979. 

After the of Park Chung Hee in 1979, Choi, the prime minister of South Korea at the time, took power. Because of the unrest of Park's authoritarian rule, Choi promised a new constitution and democratic elections (many thought that the elections led by Park were ). He won a December election later that year to become the country's fourth president.

In December 1979, Major General Chun Doo-hwan and close allies in the military staged a military coup against Choi's government. They quickly removed the army chief of staff and by early 1980 virtually controlled the government.

In April 1980, because of increasing pressure from Chun and other politicians, Choi appointed Chun as head of the Korean Central Intelligence Agency, giving him enormous power. In May, Chun declared martial law and removed all trappings of civilian government, becoming the de facto ruler of the country. By then, student protests were increasing in Seoul and Gwangju. The protests in Gwangju continued, resulting in the Gwangju Massacre, where over 200 civilians were killed within five days by Chun's military.

Choi resigned soon afterward. Chun became president on September 1, 1980. After his resignation, Choi lived quietly out of the public eye. He died on October 22, 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="46363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46363" title="Pak Chŏng Hŭi">
Pak Chŏng Hŭi

Pak Chŏng Hŭi (sometimes spelled: Park Chung-hee) (November 14, 1917 – October 26, 1979) was the president of Republic of Korea from 1961 to 1979. He has been credited with the modernization of the Republic of Korea through export-led growth and developmental dictatorship. He was named one of the top 100 Asians of the Century by Time Magazine (1999). He has been severely criticized for his government's brutality, especially after 1971.
Pak was born in Seonsan, a small town in Gumi-si(구미시), Gyeongsangbuk-do(경상북도) near Daegu(대구). He was the seventh child from a family of modest means. His father was Park Seong-bin (age 46 at the time) and his mother was Baek Nam-hui (age 45). 

Pak came from an undistinguished local branch of Goryeong Bak descent group. 

Pak won admission to Daegu Teacher's College through a competitive examination. He entered on April 8, 1932 and graduated on March 25, 1937, after five years of study. His formative years coincided with the Japanese invasion of China, starting with the Manchurian incident in 1931 and culminating in all-out war in 1937.

He went on to teach for several years in Mungyeong, where the school has been preserved as a museum.

Pak won admission to a two-year training program in Manchukuo, the Japanese puppet state in Manchuria. Under the Japanese policy of sōshi-kaimei, he adopted the Japanese-style name Takaki Masao (高木正雄). He graduated from the Japanese Manchurian military academy at the top of his class in 1944. He then was selected for another two years of training at the Imperial Military Academy in Tokyo. 

Pak had served as a lieutenant in the Kantogun, part of the Imperial Japanese Army, in Manchuria, fighting Mao Zedong's Chinese Communist forces. Although the Kantogun also carried out actions against Korean guerrillas, it's improbable that Pak participated in such action since there were no Korean guerrillas in the region at the time of his brief deployment.

In the aftermath of Japan's defeat in World War II, under his communist elder brother's influence, Pak joined a communist group, the South Korean Workers' Party, in the American occupation zone, which later became South Korea. Pak was involved in a rebellion in Yeosu and Suncheon, Jeollanam-do, led by units of the new American-supported army. Pak was arrested and sentenced to death, but released soon after revealing the names of communist participants to the South Korean authorities. He was then released and left the army in dishonor. However; the outbreak of the Korean War enabled him to be reinstated, and he served the new country fighting against the communists.

Syngman Rhee, the first president of the Republic of (South) Korea, was forced out of office on April 26, 1960 as an aftermath of the April 19 Movement, a student-led uprising. A new government took office on August 13. This was a short-lived period of parliamentary rule in South Korea with a figurehead president, Yun Po-son, in response to the authoritarian excesses and corruption of the Rhee administration. Real power rested with Prime Minister Chang Myon.

Yun and Chang did not command the respect of the majority of the Democratic Party. They could not agree on the composition of the cabinet and Chang attempted to hold the tenuous coalition together by reshuffling cabinet positions three times within five months.

Meanwhile, the new government was caught between an economy that was suffering from a decade of mismanagement and corruption by the Rhee presidency and the students who had led to Rhee's ouster. The students were regularly filling the streets, making numerous and wide-ranging demands for political and economic reforms. Law and order could not be maintained because the police, long an instrument of the Rhee government, were demoralized and had been completely discredited by the public. Continued factional wrangling caused the public to turn away from the party.

Seizing the moment, then-Major General Pak Chŏng Hŭi led a bloodless military coup (called the 5.16 Revolution) on May 16, 1961, a coup largely welcomed by a general populace exhausted by political chaos. Although Chang resisted the coup efforts, President Yun sided with the junta and persuaded the United States Eighth Army and the commanders of various South Korean army units not to interfere with the new rulers.

The Korean Central Intelligence Agency (KCIA) was created on June 19, 1961 to prevent a countercoup and to suppress all potential enemies domestic and international. It was to have not only investigative power, but also the power to arrest and detain anyone suspected of wrongdoing or harboring anti-junta sentiments. The KCIA extended its power to economic and foreign affairs under its first director, Colonel (retired) Kim Jong-pil, a relative of Pak and one of the original planners of the coup.

Yun remained in office to provide legitimacy to the regime, but resigned on March 22, 1962. Pak Chŏng Hŭi was the real power as chairman of the Supreme Council for National Reconstruction. Following pressure from the Kennedy administration in the United States, a civilian government was restored, with Pak narrowly winning the 1963 election as the candidate of the newly-created Democratic Republican Party over Yun, candidate of the Civil Rule Party. He was re-elected in 1967, again defeating Yun by a narrow margin.

Pak is generally credited as playing a pivotal role in the development of South Korea's economy by shifting its focus to export-oriented industrialization. When he came to power in 1961, South Korean per capita income was only USD 72, and North Korea was regarded as the greater economic and military power on the peninsula because North Korea was industrialized under the Japanese régime due to its geographical proximity to Manchuria and merit in terms of natural resources, and managed to rebuild after heavy bombing by the Americans during the Korean War. During Pak's tenure, per capita income increased twentyfold, and South Korea's rural, undeveloped economy was transformed into an industrial powerhouse. Even Kim Tae Jung, one of Pak's most prominent opponents during his rule, has retrospectively praised him for his role in creating the modern-day South Korea. 

The strength of Pak's leadership was evidenced by the remarkable development of industries and rise in the standard of living of average South Korean citizens during his presidency. Many still question Pak's judgment, however, as his 1965 normalization of diplomatic relations with Japan had been extremely unpopular and resulted in widespread unrest as memories from Japan's 35-year brutal colonization of Korea proved vivid. However, by normalizing relations with Japan, Pak allowed Japanese capital to flow into the country. These aids and loans -- although criticized by many Koreans to be too meager for the 35 years of occupation by Imperial Japan -- along with American aid, helped to restore the depleted capital of South Korea. Nonetheless, it must be noted that with North Korea's economy at the time being bigger and more vibrant than that of South Korea, Pak did not have many options or much time to negotiate for more fitting reparations and apologies. This issue still plagues Japan and South Korea's relationship today.

Pak was reelected in 1967 against Yun.


The Constitution of 1963 barred a South Korean president from seeking a third consecutive term. However, with the assistance of the KCIA, Pak's allies in the legislature succeeded in amending the Constitution to allow the current president--himself--to run for three consecutive terms. In 1971, Pak was victorious again, this time over Kim Dae-jung in the general election.

Just after being sworn in for his third term, Pak declared a state of emergency "based on the dangerous realities of the international situation." In October 1972, he dissolved Parliament and suspended the Constitution. In December, a new constitution, the Yusin Constitution, was approved easily by the general public. The new document dramatically increased Pak's power. It transferred the election of the president to an electoral college, the National Conference for Unification. The presidential term was increased to six years, with no limits on reelection. In effect, the constitution converted Pak's presidency into a legal dictatorship. Pak was re-elected in 1972 and 1978 with no opposition.

On January 21, 1968, a team of about 10--15 North Korean spies was secretly sent to South Korea to kill Pak. They crossed the border mountains and hijacked a bus in Seoul. No civilians were in the bus. The spies drove it towards the Blue House (the presidential residence of South Korea), where Pak was at the time. When the Korean military was informed of the presence of the North Koreans, they hurriedly went to protect the president. Armed with machine guns and grenades, the spies drove almost to the Blue House until they met South Korean soldiers. After a short grenade and gun battle, all but one spy were killed. Thirty-seven South Koreans were also killed.

On August 15, 1974, a botched assassination attempt by North Korean agent Mun Se-gwang claimed his wife, Yuk Yeong-su, instead. After this attack he finished the speech he had been giving. His wife died later that day.

On October 26, 1979, Pak was gunned down by Kim Jae-kyu, the director of the KCIA. Kim claimed that Pak was an obstacle to democracy and that his act was one of patriotism. After Kim shot the president to death and the leader of his guards, his agents quickly killed four more of the presidential bodyguards before the group was apprehended. The entire episode is usually either considered a spontaneous act of passion by an individual and that the actions of the other agents only occurred because the men felt loyalty to Kim and naturally followed his lead, or as part of a pre-arranged attempted coup by the intelligence service, , with the latter being more widely believed.

It is alleged by supporters that despite his dictatorial rule and the high growth that occurred during his years in power, Pak did not engage in corruption and led a simple life. Detractors allege he was simply a brutal dictator and only brought about high growth through military control over labour.

Being a complex man as a policy maker, many Koreans continue to hold Pak in high regard in great part due to the industrial and economic growth experienced by South Korea under his presidency. But there are also many who condemn Pak for the brutality of his dictatorship and for his service to the Japanese army during World War II. Today, Pak's critics deplore the widespread human rights abuses in South Korea during his rule. However, his supporters argue that the human rights abuse accusation is mostly fabricated or exaggerated. One example of his many abuses was the kidnapping of opposition activist Kim Tae Jung. Around noon of August 8, 1973, Kim was attended a meeting with the leader of the Democratic Unification Party held in the Room 2212 of the Hotel Grand Palace in Tokyo. At around 13:19, Kim was abducted by a group of unidentified agents as he walked out of the room after the meeting. He was then taken into the empty Room 2210 where he was drugged and became unconscious. Later Kim was moved to Osaka and later to Seoul, South Korea. Kim was later quoted as saying that a weight had been attached to his feet aboard the boat heading toward Korea, indicating that the kidnappers had intended to drown Kim by throwing him into the sea. They were, however, forced to abandon this plan as the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force began a pursuit of the kidnappers' boat. Subsequently Kim was released in Busan. He was found alive at his house in Seoul five days after the kidnapping. According to some reports U.S. Ambassador Philip Habib intervened with the South Korean government to save Kim's life.

Pak's daughter Park Geun-hye was elected the chairwoman of the conservative Grand National Party in 2004. She has resigned her post in order to prepare a presidential bid for the upcoming election. 


</doc>
