<doc id="55940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55940" title="Joseph Goebbels">
Joseph Goebbels

Dr. Joseph Goebbels (German pronunciation: ) (29 October 1897 in Mönchengladbach as "Paul Joseph Goebbels" – 1 May 1945 in Berlin) was a German politician and the minister of propaganda during the Nazi regime. He studied literature and philosophy at the Heidelberg university.

He was a close friend of Adolf Hitler. Goebbels stayed with Hitler in the Führerbunker until Hitler's suicide on 30 April 1945. After Hitler's death, Goebbels was chancellor of Germany for one day, before he and his wife Magda Goebbels were killed by an SS officer, on Goebbels' orders. Just before she died, Magda killed their six children with poison.

Joseph Goebbels was born as "Paul Joseph Goebbels" in Mönchengladbach on 29 October 1897. His father, Friedrich Goebbels, was a bookkeeper and his mother was Maria Goebbels (born Oldenhausen). He was the third child of the family and grew up with five siblings. Due to an illness in his childhood in 1901, Goebbels' right foot was malformed. He went to a Roman Catholic school in Rheydt in 1908. In 1914, Goebbels went to high school in Rheydt. When the First World War started in August 1914, he volunteered to be part of the Army. This was refused because of his limp.

Goebbels took his Abitur (school exams) in 1917. He was the best in his class. He gave a speech at the end of the school year. However, his headteacher said, that he would not become a good speaker. Later, in 1917, he at the university of Bonn. Goebbels studied ancient philology, history and German philology. He received his PhD in Drama from the Heidelberg university in 1921. In 1923, Goebbels worked for the Deutsche Bank.

Goebbels joined the National Socialist German Workers' Party in 1926. In the same year, Hitler made him a Gauleiter for Berlin and Brandenburg. In 1927, Goebbels published the first the Nazi newspaper, "Der Angriff" ("The Attack"), in Berlin. The newspaper was printed twice a week. In 1928, he became a member of the German Reichstag. He kept this position until 1945. In 1929, Goebbels saw his first movie with sound, ""The Singing Fool"". He said it would be the future of propaganda.

In 1930, he became the "Reichspropagandaleiter" ("Chief of the German Propaganda") and the deputy of Heinrich Himmler. Goebbels married Magda Quand in 1931. Franz Ritter von Epp and Adolf Hitler were the witnesses at the wedding.

When Hitler became Chancellor in 1933, Goebbels became the Reich Minister for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda.

In 1934, Goebbels moved to a villa near Berlin. On 30 June 1934, he was an of the arrest of Ernst Röhm in Bad Wiessee. Goebbels gave the order to confiscate about 650 art exhibits in 1937. He put them on display in show called "Degenerate Art". On 9 November 1938, a German diplomat was killed in France by a Jewish teenager. Because of this murder, Goebbels gave the order to the SS for what is now called Kristallnacht.

At the start of the Second World War, Goebbels ordered to broadcast special at the cinema and on the radio. On 26 May 1940, he published the new weekly newspaper "Das Reich" ("The Imperium") for the first time. In 1942, Goebbels took part in the Wannsee Conference. He was one of the Nazi leaders who planned the Final Solution to kill all the Jewish people. In 1943, he gave a well known speech in the Berlin Sportpalast where he called the Germans to support total war. The coup on 20 July 1944 failed, because of Goebbels' quick thinking. He broadcast on radio that the coup had failed, before the plan of Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg could succeed.

On 22 April 1945, two days after Adolf Hitler's birthday, he arrived in the Führerbunker in Berlin. He was one of the witnesses to the marriage of Hitler to Eva Braun. On the same day, Hitler made him his . After Hitler's suicide on 30 April, he became the Chancellor of Germany. He only held this job for one day, because on 1 May 1945, his wife poisoned their six children with the help of an SS doctor. Immediately afterward he and his wife were shot dead by an SS officer.


</doc>
<doc id="55942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55942" title="Carl Maria von Weber">
Carl Maria von Weber

Carl Maria von Weber (born Eutin, Holstein, baptised 20 November 1786; died London), 5 June, 1826 in London, was one of the most important German composers of the early Romantic period. He wrote many operas, of which "Der Freischütz", "Euryanthe" and "Oberon" are especially famous. He wrote instrumental music, especially for the clarinet, and wrote very well for orchestra.

Weber was the eldest of the three children of Franz Anton von Weber. The word “von” in front of a German surname normally means that the family had noble ancestry, but the Weber family do not appear to be of noble blood. Weber was never a strong, healthy child. He had a damaged hip-bone and always walked with a limp. His father worked in the theatre, and the family often moved from one town to another. This was difficult for his education. His mother was called Rosa, she influenced him to go to military school at the age of 20, but his love for music meant that he would go to Cranbrook in Germany. His daughter Laurel was well known for playing the viola in many Orchestras.

Weber’s mother died of tuberculosis when he was eleven. Later that year Weber went to Salzburg, to study with Michael Haydn (the brother of the famous Joseph Haydn), and later to Munich. He started to publish some piano music, and even composed an opera. When he was 14 the family moved to Freiberg in Saxony. He had an opera performed there, and he started to write articles as a critic in a Leipzig newspaper.

In 1801 the family went back to Salzburg and Weber had more lessons from Michael Haydn. He also studied in Vienna with a famous musician called Abbé Vogler. Through him he got to know another of his pupils, Giacomo Meyerbeer, who became a famous composer and was a close friend of Weber.

Vogler thought Weber was very talented, and helped him to get a job in Breslau. Weber had lots of good ideas about how to improve the music there: by changing the way that the orchestra sat, having more rehearsal time, not playing bad pieces of music, and pensioning off old singers. A lot of people there did not like these ideas and made life difficult for him. One night he absent-mindedly drank from a wine bottle. The bottle had engraving-acid inside, and it made him ill for two months. He was never able to sing again. When he tried to go back to work all the good changes he had made had been undone, so he resigned. He had a job in Karlsruhe for a short time, then went briefly back to Breslau, but because he owed people money there he disappeared and got a job in Stuttgart.

His lifestyle was rather wild, and he even got arrested once for debt and fraud. However, he continued to become well-known as a composer and wrote a lot of instrumental and religious music. He spent some time in several large cities including Prague and Berlin. In Dresden he worked hard to make German Opera a success (most operas were still Italian in those days).

Weber was not well. He was suffering from tuberculosis, but needed money to support his family. So when he was invited to go to London to compose and produce his opera "Oberon" he accepted the offer. He had already been having English lessons and learned to speak the language quite well. In 1826 he travelled to England where he finished composing "Oberon" and conducted its first performance on 12 April. He stayed on in England to earn some more money. He was looking forward to going home, but on 5 June, the night before he was due to go back to Germany, he died. He was buried in London. 18 years later Richard Wagner arranged for Weber’s body to be brought back to Germany to be buried in Dresden. 

Weber left an opera "Die Drei Pintos" ('The Three Pintos') unfinished. Meyerbeer was going to finish it, but in the end it was Gustav Mahler who finished it and conducted the first performance of the completed work in Leipzig in 1888.

Weber was not only a great composer, but a very skilled pianist and conductor. He wrote a very large number of works including cantatas and songs, but most of these are not often heard today. One of his most popular works is called "Invitation to the Dance". It was written for piano, but later Hector Berlioz arranged it for orchestra and this is how it is often heard nowadays. 

Weber wrote two Concertos for clarinet and orchestra and also a Concertino (a small concerto in one movement). Another one-movement concerto was the "Konzertstück in F minor" for piano and orchestra. His opera "Der Freischütz " is probably his best work, and the overture is often heard separately as a concert piece. The story of the opera is full of magic. It is written in German and has some spoken words as well as sung music (this kind of opera was called a Singspiel). This opera in particular influenced Richard Wagner who developed German opera in the 19th century.


</doc>
<doc id="55944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55944" title="Alive III">
Alive III

Alive III is a live album by the American hard rock and heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on May 18, 1993.



</doc>
<doc id="55946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55946" title="Category:1993 albums">
Category:1993 albums


</doc>
<doc id="55948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55948" title="Ter Hachatrjan">
Ter Hachatrjan

Ter Hachatrjan (Russian: Тер Хачатрян) is the name of a Russian noble family during the 18th century. 

Duke Aleksandr Ter Hachatrjan (around 1870-1917) was born as an Armenian aristocrat. He also belonged to the Russian nobility. He married the Greek Duchess Sofia. They had two sons together: 


During the revolution in Petrograd in 1917, Duke Aleksandr and his wife were killed by the Bolsheviks. The children of the family Ter Hachatrjan escaped from Petrograd and went to Caucasus. Bagrat Aleksandrovich lost his brother Anton Alekjsandrovich.

Duke Anton Aleksandrovich appeared in the city Rostov on Don. He married Barinova Elena Aleksandrovna. They had no children.
In the year 1932, Duke Bagrat Aleksandrovich married Petrachuk Olga Alekseevna, the daughter of merchant. They had two daughters together: 

The Ter Hachatrjan family felt under the repression of NKVD in 1937. They were arrested and placed in jail. Under the pressure of local government, Duke Bagrat Aleksandrovich had to stopping using his title and rid himself of all his possessions that were brought from Petrograd. The family felt under the amnesty.

Amalia Bagratovna married Saidoff N.S., a rich man from Baku. They had two children together: 


Since this time, all the descendents of the Ter Hachatrjan family are named as Saidoff–Ter Hachatrjan.


The descendents of the family are living in the Kingdom of the Netherlands.


</doc>
<doc id="55949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55949" title="Turbine">
Turbine

A turbine is an engine that turns fluid into energy. 

Simple turbines have a shaft with a blade on it. Moving fluids, such as water or air, push the blades so that they turn around with the shaft. The turning movement can be used to make energy. Early turbine examples are windmills and water wheels. Turbine blades can also be turned to move a fluid. This is how simple propeller airplanes work.

A casing can be placed around the turbine to control the movement of the fluid.



</doc>
<doc id="55950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55950" title="Rotor">
Rotor

Rotor ( part) may mean:

In engineering:

In computing:

In music:

In other fields:


</doc>
<doc id="55951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55951" title="Jet">
Jet

JET, Jet or Jets all have many meanings. Some of them are:










</doc>
<doc id="55952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55952" title="Electric power">
Electric power

Electric power is defined as the amount of work done by an electric current, or the rate at which electrical energy is transmitted. The SI unit of power is the watt.

It is measured in Joules

When electric current flows in a circuit with resistance, it does work. Devices convert this work into many useful forms, such as heat (electric heaters), light (light bulbs), motion (electric motors) and sound (loudspeaker).



</doc>
<doc id="55955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55955" title="Kiss Unplugged">
Kiss Unplugged

Kiss Unplugged is an album of the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss's performance on MTV Unplugged on August 8, 1995. The album was released on March 12, 1996.



</doc>
<doc id="55956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55956" title="Category:1996 albums">
Category:1996 albums


</doc>
<doc id="55958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55958" title="Carnival Of Souls: The Final Sessions">
Carnival Of Souls: The Final Sessions

Carnival Of Souls: The Final Sessions is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on October 28, 1997.



</doc>
<doc id="55961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55961" title="Template:Renametab">
Template:Renametab

function renameTab() {
addOnloadHook( renameTab )

</doc>
<doc id="55972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55972" title="Template:Blpdispute">
Template:Blpdispute

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="55973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55973" title="Template:Hoax">
Template:Hoax

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="55975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55975" title="Template:POV-title">
Template:POV-title


</doc>
<doc id="55981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55981" title="Head (hydraulic)">
Head (hydraulic)

Hydraulic head is a specific measurement of water pressure or total energy per unit weight above a datum. 

It is usually measured as a water surface elevation, expressed in units of length, but represents the energy at the entrance (or bottom) of a piezometer. In an aquifer, it can be calculated from the depth to water in a piezometric well (a specialized water well), and given information of the piezometer's elevation and screen depth. 

Even though it is conventional to use gauge pressure in the calculation of hydraulic head, it is more correct to use total pressure (gauge pressure + atmospheric pressure), since this is truly what drives groundwater flow. Often detailed observations of barometric pressure are not available at each well through time, so this is often disregarded (contributing to large errors at locations where hydraulic gradients are low or the angle between wells is acute.)

Hydraulic head is a measure of energy, and has many analogs in physics and chemistry, where the same mathematical principles and rules apply:





</doc>
<doc id="55982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55982" title="Susan Brownmiller">
Susan Brownmiller

Susan Brownmiller (born February 15, 1935) is a radical feminist. She works as a journalist and activist. She is best known for her pioneering work on the politics of rape in "Against Our Will: Men, Women, and Rape" (1975). Brownmiller says that rape has been defined by men rather than women until now. Men use rape as a means of continuing male dominance by keeping all women in a state of fear. All men benefit from this. Brownmiller also participated in civil rights activism. She joined CORE during the sit-in movement and volunteered for Freedom Summer in 1964. She first became involved in the Women's Liberation Movement in New York City in 1968. There she joined a consciousness-raising group in the newly-formed New York Radical Women organization. Brownmiller went on to co-ordinate a sit-in against Ladies' Home Journal in 1970, began work on "Against Our Will" after a New York Radical Feminists speak-out on rape in 1971, and co-founded Women Against Pornography in 1979. She continues to write and speak on feminist issues, including a recent memoir and history of Second Wave radical feminism, "In Our Time: Memoir of a Revolution" (1999).

As of 2005, she is an Adjunct Professor of Women's & Gender Studies at Pace University in New York City,




</doc>
<doc id="55983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55983" title="Erich Fromm">
Erich Fromm

Erich Pinchas Fromm (March 23, 1900 – March 18, 1980) was an internationally renowned Jewish-German-American social psychologist, psychoanalyst, and humanistic philosopher. He was associated with what became known as the Frankfurt School of critical theory.



</doc>
<doc id="55984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55984" title="François Adrien Boieldieu">
François Adrien Boieldieu

François Adrien Boieldieu (December 16, 1775 – October 8, 1834) was a French composer. He mainly wrote operas.




</doc>
<doc id="55985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55985" title="Red Hot Riding Hood">
Red Hot Riding Hood

Red Hot Riding Hood is a movie made by Tex Avery. It is a short cartoon. It was made in 1943. In 1990, the public voted it to be one of the best animated movies of all time.


</doc>
<doc id="55992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55992" title="Template:Doppelganger">
Template:Doppelganger


</doc>
<doc id="55997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55997" title="Turkish Angora">
Turkish Angora

The Turkish Angora is a cat from Turkey. It has long white fur. It is like the Turkish Van cat, but its fur is different.


</doc>
<doc id="55998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55998" title="Work (physics)">
Work (physics)

In physics, work is the amount of energy transferred by a force. 

Like energy, it is a scalar quantity, with SI units of joules. Heat conduction is not considered to be a form of work, since there is no macroscopically measurable force, only microscopic forces occurring in atomic collisions. The term "work" was created in the 1830s by the French mathematician Gaspard-Gustave Coriolis.

According to the work-energy theorem if an external force acts upon a rigid object, causing its kinetic energy to change from "E" to "E", then the mechanical work ("W") is given by:

where "m" is the mass of the object and "v" is the object's velocity.

If a force "F" acts on an object while the object is displaced a distance "d", and the force and displacement are parallel to each other, the work done on the object is the product of "F" and "d":
If the force and the displacement are in the same direction, the work is positive. If the force and the displacement are in opposite directions the work is negative.



</doc>
<doc id="56002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56002" title="Psycho Circus">
Psycho Circus

Psycho Circus is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 22, 1998.



</doc>
<doc id="56003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56003" title="Biological warfare">
Biological warfare

Biological warfare (or germ warfare) is when pathogens are used as a weapon. This is called a biological weapon. Pathogens are organisms that can cause disease. If non-living things (like toxins) are used, this is considered to be chemical warfare. 

Biological warfare has been used throughout history. The first form of biological warfare may have been when the plague hit the Mongols. During battle, they were said to have thrown plague victims' bodies at their enemies. Before the 20th century, it took some of the following forms:

During the Second Sino-Japanese War, biological weapons were used by the Japanese army against China. The Japanese army usually launched contaminated fleas or food from planes.

Today, pathogens for diseases like anthrax or smallpox could be used as agents for biological weapons.

The production, and stockpiling of such weapons was forbidden in the Biological Weapons Convention of 1972


</doc>
<doc id="56004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56004" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Log 5">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Log 5

Those articles should be deleted because they are not . 14:48, 17 June 2007 (UTC)


We are currently far too small to be having WikiProjects created yet. Included in this nomination are the , , and all associated redirects. 18:40, 12 June 2007 (UTC)









Can anyone sort this out or should I just speedy it? - 12:12, 21 June 2007 (UTC)
Towelie is a minor character on South Park, and shouldn't be included in its own article. I suggest a list of South Park characters be created, and then this article can be merged there. Also, see . Towelie does not have its own article on the English Wikipedia; it's part of the list of South Park residents. () 20:32, 17 June 2007 (UTC)


This is a page largely explaining where the name "Nicholas" is from; I have written a page Nicholas of Myra, dealing with Saint Nicholas (other than the Russian Nicholas I), who is also considered a Saint. I therefore propose to delete this page; perhaps merging the info on the name into the newly created page. -- 15:37, 17 June 2007 (UTC)


In my opinion, we need to stay far, far away from non-babel userboxes. Userboxes have caused a huge amount of strife at en.wiki, and I think it would be wonderful if we could avoid the whole problem. 15:27, 15 June 2007 (UTC)

This article contains way too much info on a minor (or a young person under the age of 18), and as other wiki policies go, it is illegal to do this. In adittion, the person descibed in the article isn't notable enough to qualify as an article, Also the only contributor was . (Maybe this user was writing an autobiography of himself, I think.) -- 05:38, 17 June 2007 (UTC)

Most of the items listed are random household items (and red links), there are no other wikis with an article of this title, and a Google search brings up no hits. I can think of no possible uses of this article. -- 15:45, 8 June 2007 (UTC)

Person in question is a local celebrity with little to no notability outside of a limited area. Google only reports 85 hits on the name (including homepage and a comment from the creator on his own en:wp userpage). Page does not exist on en:wp. (page was QD in June 2006 at author's request -- 01:15, 1 June 2007 (UTC) 

(note from author)<br>
I am currently gathering more info about him to put on the Main Wikipedia Page. Also about the google hits...google hits shouldnt matter. Mark Anthony Garrett has more hits than 85, Just because you get a low hits when you type his name but he is all over the internet. And the links on his page (besides his) homesite back up what his article is all about. That page shouldnt be deleted, The Point of Simple Wikipedia is for those wanting to know basic information about a topic, including Mark Anthony Garrett. This page is like a starter leading up to his page on Wikipedia. This article was made in good taste and I dont want to see it deleted because it does not offend anyone and meets all standards as other pages. -


I know that our article about sponges is not great. This article here is so poor in information that placing a simple interwiki becomes a problem. After a thorough reading of the enWP sponges, I have no idea what a tube sponge could be (that makes it different from a sponge). I therefore propose this article for deletion, in the hope it will be re-created with more info. 

I am putting this up for deletion. Sure, I understand this is a mormon movement, even with Google hits coming up, but I would prefer to have it merged into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints under (my proposed) section of "missions".-- 10:57, 8 June 2007 (UTC)


This page should be deleted because of a couple of reasons. First, a Google search doesn't show up anything, secondly, it's uncited, so I have no clue whether it is real. 15:09, 3 June 2007 (UTC)


No page on planetary wind belst exist on en.wiki, and this term doesn't seem to be used in any of the articles here or on en.wiki. This should be deleted, or renamed so that it encompasses many more wind-related terms. () 23:33, 1 June 2007 (UTC)


It is a short, unreferenced article, with no interwikis. The validity of the content and its notability cannot be verified. 18:04, 31 May 2007 (UTC)


To me, this looks like a listing of laboratory equiment (which is supposedly present in most chemical laboratories. However, there is no explanation as to what it is, or what the items are supposedly good for. Also, some of the intems are red links. In short, I think this article should be deleted. It can be recreated in a better form afterwads, if anyone feels like it.

It is a short unrefenreced article about a subject with an unclarified notability. 18:05, 31 May 2007 (UTC)

Islamic terrorism is a short article without a neutral point of view. This isn't very useful and the article should be deleted rather than left alone for people to try and correct it.

I don't believe this article is a "core article". I don't think this wiki is ready for a page for every episode of every tv show. I can't recall any recent rfd on a similar subject and want to see what the community thinks about this.

Delete. Not worth keeping. If it were English Wikipedia, I would say keep, but Simple English Wikipedia doesn't need articles such as this one.


Nice and useful guide, but I reccommend that we delete it and move it to SE Wikibooks.-- 04:15, 11 May 2007 (UTC)


The article does not discuss why this is a notable military formation. A google search comes up with very few legitmate hits. Nothing links to this page. If the page does need to exist, it should be merged with the Waffen SS page. - 17:29, 13 May 2007 (UTC)




No longer needed now that we have SE Wiktionary. It looks like the article failed RfD the first time because SE Wiktionary was not getting many contributions at that point in time. I'm not sure eactly why it failed the second time. Something about keeping it for historical reasons. I don't think we need it at all. The page has pretty much been abandoned. to the first nomination (scroll down a little to find it...) and to the second nomination. · 18:14, 10 May 2007 (UTC)

These entries list names, where the name comes from, and perhaps what the name means. In my opinion, this information does not belong into a general-purpose encyclopedia; I therefore think these articles should be deleted. They may be moved to another suitable Wikiproject, if desired. -- 11:00, 2 May 2007 (UTC)
I ask only because I am confused by your wording and do not know exactly what you are proposing we do. Thanks. · 22:40, 8 May 2007 (UTC)

Exact copy of the english language article;no interwiki links even in en. Very much looks like a vanity page. -- 17:10, 5 May 2007 (UTC)

These three pages are copy-pastes from English Wikipedia. The editor who created the pages has had one week to simplify and has made no changes to the pages. Unless someone wants to step up to simplify, they should be deleted. They serve no purpose in their current state. · 18:41, 30 April 2007 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="56006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56006" title="Kiss Symphony: Alive IV">
Kiss Symphony: Alive IV

Kiss Symphony: Alive IV is a live album from the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss performing with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra. It was released on July 22, 2003.



</doc>
<doc id="56008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56008" title="Frankfurt Stock Exchange">
Frankfurt Stock Exchange

The Frankfurt Stock Exchange ("in German Börse Frankfurt") is a stock exchange in Frankfurt, Hesse. It is the biggest stock exchange in Germany by the amount of money exchanged and the number of companies.


</doc>
<doc id="56009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56009" title="General-purpose programming language">
General-purpose programming language

A General-purpose programming language (GPL) is a way to tell a computer what to do that makes a user's job easy and quick without much confusion. GPLs can be used for many different things. An example can be BASIC, invented by John Kemeny and Thomas Kurtz in 1963.


</doc>
<doc id="56010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56010" title="Bikini">
Bikini

A Bikini is a type of swimsuit for women. It consists of two parts; pants and a bra top, leaving an uncovered area between the two. The bikini is an ancient invention, reinvented after the Second World War. 

The bikini is perhaps the most popular female beachwear around the globe. 
By the mid 2000s bikinis had become a US$811 million business annually, according to the NPD Group, a consumer and retail information company. The bikini has boosted spin-off services like bikini waxing and the sun tanning industries.

Predecessors of the bikini date back to antiquity, in Çatalhöyük and the Greco-Roman world. Artwork dating back to the Diocletian period (286-305 AD) in Villa Romana del Casale, Sicily depicts women in garments resembling bikinis in mosaics on the floor. The images of ten women, dubbed the "Bikini Girls", exercising in clothing that would pass as bikinis today, are the most replicated mosaic among the 37 million colored tiles at the site. Archeological finds, especially in Pompeii, show the Roman goddess Venus wearing a bikini. A statue of Venus in a bikini was found in a cupboard in the southwest corner in Casa della Venere, others were found in the front hall. 

By the early 1940s two-piece swimsuits were frequent on American beaches. Hollywood stars like Ava Gardner, Rita Hayworth and Lana Turner tried similar swimwear or beachwear. 

Finally, the modern bikini was introduced by French engineer Louis Réard and fashion designer Jacques Heim in Paris in 1946. Réard was a car engineer but by 1946 he was running his mother's lingerie boutique near Les Folies Bergères in Paris. Heim was working on a new kind of beach costume. It comprised two pieces, the bottom large enough to cover its wearer's navel. Réard named his swimsuit the "bikini", taking the name from the Bikini Atoll, one of a series of islands in the South Pacific where testing on the new atomic bomb was occurring that summer. Réard could not find a model to wear his design. He ended up hiring Micheline Bernardini, a nude dancer from the "Casino de Paris". That bikini, a string bikini with a g-string back of of cloth with newspaper type printed across, was introduced on July 5 at Piscine Molitor, a public pool in Paris. Heim's design was the first worn on the beach, but the clothing was given its name by Réard.



</doc>
<doc id="56013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56013" title="High Voltage">
High Voltage

High Voltage is the debut studio album by Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It was released in Australia on 17 February, 1975.

All songs were written by Angus Young, Malcolm Young, and Bon Scott, except where noted.


</doc>
<doc id="56014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56014" title="Category:AC/DC albums">
Category:AC/DC albums


</doc>
<doc id="56016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56016" title="Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap">
Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap

Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap is a studio album by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It was released in November 1976 in Europe and delayed for release in USA until 1981.



</doc>
<doc id="56026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56026" title="Iron oxide">
Iron oxide

Iron oxides are chemical compounds. There are sixteen known iron oxides. Iron oxides are used in pigments. It is used in both man-made and natural pigments.

Venetian red (haematite), Magnetite (Fe0), or a mixture of oxides make black or purple pigments. The umber’s, sienna’s and ochre’s are oxides or hydrated oxides of a yellow to chestnut colour.



</doc>
<doc id="56027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56027" title="Jimi Hendrix">
Jimi Hendrix

James Marshall Hendrix (November 27, 1942 – September 18, 1970), was an American guitarist. Hendrix is thought to be one of the most influential musicians in the history of rock and roll music.
He became successful in England, and then became famous all through the world after he played at the Monterey Pop Festival in 1967. He was also known for headlining in the famous Woodstock Festival.
Hendrix taught himself how to play the electric guitar and usually played a Fender Stratocaster. Because he was left-handed, he would play the guitar upside down with the strings attached in reverse order.
He was named "Greatest Guitarist of all Time" by "Rolling Stone" magazine in 2003. 

Jimi Hendrix was born in Seattle on November 27, 1942. He was called Johnny Allen Hendrix when he was born. Later, his parents named him James Marshall Hendrix instead. He grew up without much money or attention; his parents divorced when he was nine years old, and his mother died when he was 16. At about the age of 14, Hendrix found his first guitar. It was a broken broomstick with one string that had been thrown away by another boy. He still managed to play several tunes on it. Soon after, at around 15, he managed to buy a proper acoustic guitar for $5 from a friend of his fathers. His first electric guitar was a white Supro Ozark that his father, Al Hendrix, had bought him. He did not have lessons and learned basic tunes and improvisation from watching Chuck Berry and Elvis Presley play live. He played without an amplifier.

Hendrix finished middle school but did not graduate from his high school, Garfield High School. Hendrix told some reporters in the late 1960's that he had failed because people were racist there, and did not like him because he was black. Others claim it was just because he could not get good enough grades and was unorganized. Hendrix later told the reporters that he was thrown out for being impolite to a teacher.

When Hendrix was young, he was a fan of Elvis Presley. He went to see Presley play at Sick’s Stadium on September 1, 1957, and he drew a color picture of him holding an acoustic guitar. The original drawing can be seen in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, Ohio. Even as an adult, he still loved Presley. He went to a see a Presley movie, King Creole, in Paris in late 1968, to give him inspiration to write songs. He also liked famous blues musicians such as Muddy Waters, Bo Diddley and Lightning Hopkins; and he played in the band of R&B star Little Richard. However, Hendrix and Richard did not get along. Richard did not like Hendrix's clothes, his being late and him showing off on stage.

After getting in trouble for stealing cars twice, Hendrix had to choose between going to prison for two years or joining the U.S. Army. Hendrix chose the army and on May 31, 1961 was sent to Fort Campbell, Kentucky. While in the army, his officers said that he was often caught sleeping on duty and needed to be watched at all times. He could not use a gun well and an officer said that "his mind apparently cannot function [cannot work properly] while performing duties and thinking about his guitar". However, his time in the army was important for Hendrix, because it was there that he met another soldier and bass guitar player called Billy Cochs. They would later play together in a small group called The King Kasuals.

On May 31, 1962 Hendrix’s officers thought it would be best for him to leave the army because he caused too much trouble. Hendrix agreed, and he left after only a year of service. Hendrix later said he had been let go from the army after breaking his ankle when he was landing his 26th parachute jump. He also spoke about his time in the army in interviews for a magazine, "Melody Maker", in 1967 and 1969. He said that he did not like serving the army and did not agree with their ways of doing things. When he was interviewed in America, Hendrix never talked about his time in the army. When it was brought up in a television interview, Hendrix only said that he had been based at Fort Campbell.

Hendrix's left-handed playing on a guitar made for right-handed people made him popular. His first proper concert was with a small band without a name, playing in a Synagogue. He later joined a band called The Velvetones.

After leaving the army, Hendrix and Cox moved to Clarksville in Tennessee, where they played in their group, The King Kasuals. They played in small bars but they did not make much money. So, eventually, he and Cox moved to Nashville. They played many blues-style songs in Nashville. In November 1962, Hendrix went to his first studio performance. While in Nashville, Hendrix played in many other bands as rhythm and lead guitarist and vocals. This did not get him much money, but did give him experience of how bands worked.

Later, Hendrix left Nashville and went to Northern New York City. By January 1964, he moved to Harlem where he played at bars and clubs for money. Hendrix also won first prize in an amateur guitar contest at The Apollo Theatre. In 1966, Hendrix formed his own band called "Jimmy James and The Blues Flames". The members were people that he met around town. One of them was a 15-year-old boy called Randy. 
Hendrix played many gigs around New York City and many songs at a cafe called "Café Wha?"
In 1966, Hendrix became friends with the girlfriend of Keith Richards, guitarist for The Rolling Stones, Linda Keith. She liked his music and introduced him to Chas Chandler, the manager for The Animals. Chandler told Hendrix to write a rock version of the song “Hey Joe” and when he did, Chandler brought him to London to sign a contract with him. Hendrix had to make a new band. It was called The Jimi Hendrix Experience, a name found by their business manager Mike Jeffery.

The Jimi Hendrix Experience made its first album in 1967. It was called Are You Experienced? 
When the album was being produced and sold, Hendrix travelled around the UK and some of Europe. On June 4, 1967, The Jimi Hendrix Experience played their last concert in London before going to America. In America many famous people came to see Hendrix play including Paul McCartney, George Harrison, Eric Clapton, Jack Bruce and Brian Epstein.

The album reached number two in the UK charts. In 2001, VH1 named "Are You Experienced" as the fifth greatest album of all time. "Rolling Stone" magazine put it at number 15 on a list of the 500 greatest albums of all time in 2003.

Hendrix’ second album came out in 1967. It was called Axis: Bold as Love. It had famous songs in it, most famous being ""Little Wing"". There have been several other versions of the song by other musicians like Stevie Ray Vaughan, Henry "Hank" Marrion, Metallica, Eric Clapton, Sting and Pearl Jam. An important difference in the album from other albums he made was that Hendrix tuned his guitar down a semi-tone (to E flat). The album reached number three in the US charts and number five in the UK charts.

The album almost did not sell, since Hendrix lost the master tape of side one of the LP in the back of a taxi in London. Hendrix, Chas Chandler and an engineer called Eddie Kramer had to re-mix the songs in one night. They could not get the song ""If 6 was 9"" right, but Hendrix's bassist Noel Redding had a copy of it on tape. When the album was released, Hendrix was disappointed that the album was finished so quickly and he thought it could have been done better.

Hendrix finished his third album, called Electric LadyLand - a double album with two LP's - in 1968. In this year, Chas Chandler (Hendrix’s manager) decided to leave Hendrix and so did Noel Redding. When Chandler left, Hendrix changed everything in his music. He began using different musicians and instruments. He used guitars with flutes and trombones all with distortion to get strange sounds. The album reached number one in the US. It reached number five in the UK. In 2003, VH1 named the album the 72nd best album of all time, and the "Rolling Stones" magazine gave it 54th greatest album of all time.

Hendrix went to play at Woodstock on August 18, 1969. That year, Woodstock made over $18,000 and has since become one of the most famous concerts in the world. Hendrix was told to play on Sunday evening, but did not arrive until Monday morning, which was unfortunate because of the 500,000 people that had paid to see him, around 180,000 were left and did not plan on staying his whole concert; they just wanted to see him in person for a few minutes. Hendrix then went on to play a two-hour concert that was described as awful. Hendrix’s large band had not practiced enough and could not keep up with Hendrix's fast guitar playing. But to make up for all of this, Hendrix played a version of Star Spangled Banner. He played this anthem with heavy distortion and screams from his guitar, and people thought that he was being anti-American and making fun of their anthem and country. Hendrix, in an interview, said that he "did not intend for his performance to be a political statement", he just wanted it to be another version of the national anthem.

On September 18, 1970, Hendrix was found dead in a basement of the Samarkand Hotel in London. He died after drinking too much, and then taking too many sleeping pills. He vomited and choked on his vomit because he could not regain consciousness. There are many different theories that were thought up. His girlfriend, who was with him at the time that he died, said that he was alive when she put him in the back of the ambulance, but hospital records say that Hendrix had been dead for some time before the ambulance had reached him. Some people say that Hendrix was alive, but that the paramedics did not properly hold his head while he was unconscious so he choked on his own vomit. A sad poem that was found in Hendrix’ apartment written by him made some think that he committed suicide.
The most likely explanation is that Hendrix just took too many sleeping pills while he was drunk, and then could not wake up as he vomited and choked as a result. There has been recent speculation that he may have been murdered by his manager.

Hendrix was buried in Renton, Washington in Greenwood Memorial Park on October 1, 1970. His headstone was wrong because it shows a picture of Hendrix playing a Stratocaster, but the Stratocaster is right-handed, Hendrix played left-handed. Because Hendrix had so many fans, people were worried that the crowds of people wanting to look at his grave would damage other graves, so Hendrix’ father, Al Hendrix, had another memorial site built far from other graves. The memorial is a granite dome architecture, held up by three pillars and Hendrix is buried underneath. His autograph is at the foot of each pillar and a brass sundial is at the top of the dome. There is also a memorial statue of Hendrix playing a Stratocaster on the corner of Broadway and Pine in Seattle.

Hendrix had unique fashion and a Bob Dylan-style haircut. He wore scarves, rings and brooches. In his early career, he wore a dark suit with a silk shirt. Later, he wore bright blue velvet suits, red suits and flared trousers. In 1967, he started to wear a cowboy-style hat he called "The Westerner". 

In 1968, Hendrix started tying scarves to his legs and arms. In 1969, he wore his famous bandana.

Hendrix used drugs like LSD to get hallucinations. He also smoked marijuana and drank alcohol. Hendrix would become angry and violent when he was drunk.

However, no one knows if Hendrix took heroin or not. At his autopsy, there was no heroin in his body and he had no needle marks on his body.



</doc>
<doc id="56030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56030" title="Incendiary device">
Incendiary device

Incendiary devices or incendiary bombs are bombs. These bombs have been designed to start a fire. Sometimes they are also called firebombs. They were used very frequently in World War II. Materials such as Napalm, White phosphorus, thermite, chlorine trifluoride are often employed in such bombs. A very crude such bomb (which uses fuel) is the Molotov cocktail. 

The United States still uses such bombs, called Mark 77 bomb. They were used during the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Most other countries no longer use them, since they are banned by Section III of the United Nations Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons. This treaty was ratified in 1980.


</doc>
<doc id="56031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56031" title="Napalm">
Napalm

Napalm is the name for a number of flammable liquids that have been used in warfare. Often it is jellied gasoline. Napalm is actually the thickener in such liquids. When it is mixed with gasoline, the thickener makes a sticky incendiary gel. It was developed by the U.S. in World War II by a team of Harvard chemists. The team leader was Louis Fieser. The name "napalm" has comes from the ingredients that were first used to make it. Coprecipitated aluminum salts of naphthenic and palmitic acids. These were added to the flammable substance to cause it to gel.

One of the major problems of early incendiary fluids (such as those used in flamethrowers) was that they splashed and drained too easily. The U.S. found that flamethrowers that use a gasoline gel are able to shoot farther and are more useful. Gasoline gel was difficult to manufacture because it used natural rubber, which was in high demand and expensive. Napalm provided a far cheaper alternative. It solved the problems involved with rubber-based incendiaries.

Nowadays, napalm is mostly made of benzene and polystyrene, and is known as napalm-B.

Napalm was used in flamethrowers and bombs by the U.S. and Allied forces, to increase the usefulness of flammable liquids. Napalm is made to burn at a specific rate and stick to materials. This is done by mixing different of amounts of napalm and other materials. Another useful (and dangerous) effect, primarily involving its use in bombs, was that napalm "rapidly deoxygenates the available air" . It also creates large amounts of carbon monoxide causing suffocation. Napalm bombs were also used in the Vietnam War to clear landing zones for helicopters.

Though napalm was a 20th century invention, it is part of a long history of incendiary materials in warfare. However, historically, it was primarily liquids that were used (see Greek fire). An infantry-based flammable liquid fuel weapon, the flamethrower, was introduced in World War I by the Germans, variations of which were soon developed by other sides in the conflict.

On July 17, 1944, napalm incendiary bombs were dropped for the first time by American P-38 pilots on a fuel depot at Coutances, near St. Lô, France. Napalm bombs were first used in the Pacific Theatre during the Battle of Tinian by Marine aviator. Its use was complicated because of problems with mixing, fusing and the release mechanisms. In World War II, Allied forces bombed cities in Japan with napalm, and used it in bombs and flamethrowers in Germany and the Japanese-held islands. It was used by the Greek army against communist guerrilla fighters during the Greek Civil War, by United Nations forces in Korea, by Mexico in the late 1960s against guerrilla fighters in Guerrero and by the United States during the Vietnam War.

The most well-known method of delivering napalm is from air-dropped incendiary bombs. A lesser-known method is the flame throwers used by combat infantry. Flame throwers use a thinner version of the same jellied gasoline to destroy gun emplacements, bunkers and cave hideouts. U.S. Marines fighting on Guadalcanal found them very effective against Japanese positions. The Marines used fire as both a casualty weapon as well as a psychological weapon. Men have a natural fear of fire. They found that Japanese soldiers would abandon positions in which they fought to the death against other weapons. Prisoners of war confirmed that they feared napalm more than any other weapon thrown at them.

Napalm became one of the preferred weapons of the Korean War. Pilots returning from the war zone often remarked they would rather have a couple of gasoline tanks full of napalm to drop than any other weapon, bombs, rockets or guns. The U.S. Air Force and Navy used napalm with great effect against all manner of targets to include troops, tanks, buildings and even rail road tunnels. The demoralizing effect napalm had on the enemy became apparent when scores of North Korean troops began to surrender to aircraft flying overhead. Pilots noted that they saw surviving enemy troops waving white flags on subsequent passes after dropping napalm. The pilots radioed to ground troops and the North Koreans were captured. 
Napalm has been used recently in wartime by or against: Iran (1980–88), Israel (1967, 1982), Nigeria (1969), Brazil (1972), Egypt (1973), Cyprus (1964, 1974), Argentina (1982), Iraq (1980–88, 1991, 2003 – ?), Serbia (1994), Turkey (1963, 1974, 1997), Angola, United States.

In some cases, napalm disables and kills its victims very quickly. Those who do survive suffer up to 5th degree burns. These damage parts of the skin which do not have pain receptors. However, victims who suffer 2nd degree burns from splashed napalm will be in significant amounts of pain.

Philip Jones Griffiths describes its use in Vietnam:

Phuc had third-degree burns to half her body and was not expected to live. But thanks to assistance from South Vietnamese photographer Nick Ut, and after surviving a 14-month hospital stay and 17 operations, she became an outspoken peace activist.

International law does not prohibit the use of napalm or other incendiaries against military targets, but use against civilian populations was banned by the United Nations' inhumane weapons convention (often referred to as the CCW) in 1981. Protocol III of the CCW restricts the use of incendiary weapons (not only napalm), but a number of states have not acceded to all of the protocols of the CCW. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), states are considered a party to the convention, which entered into force as international law in December 1983, if they ratify at least two of the five protocols. The United States, for example, is a party to the CCW but did not sign Protocol III.
Reports by the "Sydney Morning Herald" suggested that "napalm" has been used in the Iraq War by US forces. The U.S. Department of Defense denied this. In August 2003, the San Diego Union Tribune said that U.S. Marine pilots and their commanders confirmed the use of Mark 77 firebombs on Iraqi Republican Guards during the start of combat. Official denials of the use of 'napalm' were, however, disingenuous, as the Mk 77 bomb that is currently in service at this time, the Mk 77 Mod 5, does not use actual napalm (e.g. napalm-B). The last U.S. bomb to use actual napalm was the Mark 77 Mod 4, the last of which were destroyed in March 2001. The substance used now is a different incendiary mixture. It is sufficiently analogous in its effects that it is still a controversial incendiary, and can still be referred to colloquially as 'napalm.' 

"We napalmed both those (bridge) approaches," said Col. Randolph Alles in a recent interview. "Unfortunately, there were people there because you could see them in the (cockpit) video." (...) "They were Iraqi soldiers there. It's no great way to die," he added. (...) The generals love napalm. ... It has a big psychological effect." - "San Diego Union-Tribune, August 2003"

These bombs did not actually have napalm in them. The napalm-B (super napalm) used in Vietnam was gasoline based. The Mk-77 firebombs used in the Gulf were kerosene based. It is, however, a napalm-like liquid in its effect.

Recipes how to make napalm-like substances can be found on the Internet. Very often, the recipes say that they will make a thick substance using gasoline, with soap or polystyrene as a thickening agent. However, inexperienced people following these instructions often handle the substance improperly and cause accidents. In addition, making incendiary devices is illegal in many countries.

Napalm is usually a mixture of gasoline with suitable thickening agents. The earliest thickeners were soaps, aluminum, and magnesium palmitates and stearates. Depending on how much thickener is added, the resulting viscosity may range between syrupy liquid and thick rubbery gel. The content of long hydrocarbon chains makes the material highly hydrophobic (resistant to wetting with water), making it more difficult to extinguish. Thickened fuel also rebounds better from surfaces, making it more useful for operations in urban terrain.

There are two types of napalm: oil-based with aluminium soap thickener, and oil-based with polymeric thickener ("napalm-B").

The United States military uses three kinds of thickeners: M1, M2, and M4.

A later variant, napalm-B, also called "super napalm", is a mixture of low-octane gasoline with benzene and polystyrene. It was used in the Vietnam War. Unlike conventional napalm, which burns for only 15–30 seconds, napalm B burns for up to 10 minutes with fewer fireballs. It also sticks better to surfaces, and offers improved destruction effects. It is not as easy to ignite. This reduces the number of accidents caused by soldiers smoking. When it burns, it develops a characteristic smell.

Starting in the early 1990s, various websites including The Anarchist Cookbook advertised recipes for homemade napalm. These recipes were predominantly equal parts gasoline and styrofoam. This mixture closely resembles that of napalm-B, but lacks a percentage of benzene.

Napalm reaches burning temperatures of approximately 1,200 °C (2,200 °F). Other additives can be added, eg. powdered aluminium or magnesium, or white phosphorus.

In the early 1950s, Norway developed its own napalm, based on fatty acids in whale oil. The reason for this development was that the American-produced thickening agent performed rather poorly in the cold Norwegian climate. The product was known as Northick II.

Napalm itself became well-known by the American public after its use in the Vietnam war. Since then, it has been mentioned in the media and arts multiple times. This summary is not meant to be all inclusive.



</doc>
<doc id="56032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56032" title="Midwestern United States">
Midwestern United States

The Midwestern United States (or Midwest) is a name for the north-central states of the United States of America. The states that are part of the Midwest are: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Eastern Colorado. 

The word "Midwest" has been in common use for over 100 years. Other names for the area are no longer used. These names include the "Northwest" or "Old Northwest", "Mid-America," or "the Heartland". Since 1929, sociologists have often used the Midwest as "typical" of the entire nation.

The land in the Midwest is generally thought of as being flat. This is true of several areas in the Midwest, but there are parts that are not flat. For example, the eastern Midwest near the Appalachian Mountains, the Great Lakes basin, and northern parts of Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Iowa are not flat. Also, the northern part of the Ozark mountain range is in southern Missouri. Prairies cover most of the states west of the Mississippi River. Less rain falls in the western Midwest than in the eastern part. This causes different types of prairies. Most of the Midwest can now be called either "urban areas" or "agricultural areas". Areas in northern Minnesota, Michigan and Wisconsin, and the Ohio River valley are not very developed.

Chicago is the largest city in the region, followed by Detroit and Indianapolis. Some other important cities in the region are: Minneapolis-St. Paul, Cleveland, St. Louis, Kansas City, Milwaukee, Cincinnati, Columbus, Wichita, Des Moines, Madison and Omaha.

Europeans began to settle the area in the 17th century. French explorers and settlers created a network of fur trading posts along the Mississippi River and the upper Great Lakes. French control of the area ended in 1763 after the French and Indian War. British colonists began to expand into the Ohio Country during the 1750s. The Royal Proclamation of 1763 restricted people from moving west of the Appalachian Mountains, but it did not stop them completely.
Early settlers came to the Midwest from eastern states through routes over the Appalachian Mountains or through the waterways of the Great Lakes. After the American Revolutionary War, many more settlers began to come from eastern states. In the 1790s, people moved there because the United States government was offering land grants.

By the time of the American Civil War, many European immigrants were settling in the Midwest instead of the East: German Lutherans and Jews settled in Ohio, Wisconsin, Illinois, and eastern Missouri; Swedes and Norwegians in Wisconsin, Minnesota and northern Iowa. Poles, Hungarians, and German Catholics and Jews founded or settled in Midwestern cities. Many German Catholics also settled throughout the Ohio River valley and around the Great Lakes.

The region's soil is very good for farming. Midwest farmers can produce lots of grain crops such as corn, oats, and, most importantly, wheat. In the early days, the region was soon known as the nation's "breadbasket".

Midwesterners are sometimes viewed as open, friendly, and straightforward, or sometimes as stubborn and uncultured. Midwest values were shaped by religious beliefs and the agricultural values from the people who settled in the area. The Midwest today is a mix of Protestantism and Calvinism, untrusting of authority and power. 

Between 19 and 29% of the Midwest is Catholic. 14% of the people in Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan, 22% in Missouri and 5% in Minnesota are Baptists. 22-24% of people in Wisconsin and Minnesota are Lutherans. 1% or less of the people in the Midwest are Jewish and Muslim, with slightly more Jewish or Muslim people in major cities, such as Chicago and Cleveland. 16% of the Midwest do not have a religion.

Politics in the Midwest are often conservative. The Great Lakes area, which has more large cities than the rest of the Midwest, tends to be the most liberal area of the Midwest. 

Because of 20th century African American migration from the South, many African Americans live in most of the area's large cities. However, there are still more African Americans living in the Southern United States than in the Midwest. The mix of industry and cultures in those cities led to new types of music in the 20th century in the Midwest, including jazz, blues, rock and roll. Techno music came from Detroit and house music and blues came from Chicago. 

Today the population of the Midwest is 65,971,974, or 22.2% of the total population of the United States.

The accents of the Midwest are often clearly different from the accents of the South and many urban areas of the American Northeast. The accent of most of the Midwest is thought by many to be "standard" American English. Many national radio and television shows in the U.S. like this accent more than many other accents. This may have started because many television show hosts — such as Walter Cronkite, Johnny Carson, David Letterman, Tom Brokaw and Casey Kasem — came from this area. 

In some parts of the Midwest, the accents are quite different from the "neutral" accent of the rest of the Midwest. These accents usually are because of the of the area. For example, Minnesota, western Wisconsin and Michigan's Upper Peninsula have strong Scandinavian accents, which get stronger the farther north one goes. Many parts of Michigan have Dutch-flavored accents. Also, people from Chicago are known to have their own "" accent. The same is true of St. Louis.In the most southern parts of the Midwest, such as southern Indiana, Southern accents are common in addition to the standard Midwest accent. The same can be said of Southern Illinois, particularly below U.S. Highway 50 and south of St. Louis. Missouri is also an example of a Midwest state with southern culture. Missourians can have either a southern or Midwestern accent or a combined dialect, but accents tend to be distinctly Southern in the Southeastern and Bootheel sections of the state.




</doc>
<doc id="56034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56034" title="Maynard James Keenan">
Maynard James Keenan

Maynard James Keenan (born James Herbert Keenan on April 17, 1964) is an American rock singer, songwriter, musician, and producer. He sings in the band Tool, and also in the band A Perfect Circle. He has a side project called Puscifer.

James Herbert Keenan was born in Ravenna, Ohio on April 17, 1964. His mother is Judith and his father is Michael, who was a high school teacher. Keenan's parents divorced when he was three years old, and Michael moved away. Keenan did not see him very much for the next 12 years. Later, his mother married someone else. He was mean and did not allow Keenan to be creative. When Keenan was 11, his mother, Judith, had a brain aneurysm that paralyzed her. Two years later, she told Keenan to move to Michigan with his father.

Keenan joined the United States Army after he graduated from high school. He wanted to use the G.I. Bill to go to art school. He joined the United States Military Academy Preparatory School (West Point Prep School) where he picked up the nickname "Maynard". He did very well in his training, but said no to an offer to stay in the Army and work at West Point. He decided to start his music career instead.

After being honorably discharged from the Army, Keenan went back to Michigan to go to art school. Then, in 1988, he moved to Los Angeles, California to help design the inside of pet stores. He was fired from this job and then worked creating movie sets. He also played bass guitar in a band and sang for another band.

Keenan started playing soon after leaving art school. Then him and Adam Jones formed Tool. They have a thing for releasing albums every five years. They did so with Undertow, AEnima, and 10,000 Days. Keenan left and formed A Perfect Circle. They had 3 albums, Mer De Noms, The Thirteenth Step, and eMOTIVe. He then left again to go and pursue family time. He now has a vineyard where he makes fine wine but still takes tours for his working side project; Puscifer... There is rumored to be a Tool album coming out in 2011...Be Ready..
Keenan met Adam Jones in Los Angeles. They started the band Tool in 1990. The band's line up later became Keenan as singer, Jones playing guitar, Danny Carey playing drums, and Paul D'Amour playing bass. D'Amour ended up leaving the band and Justin Chancellor took his place. Tool signed to Zoo Entertainment in November 1991.



</doc>
<doc id="56038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56038" title="Category:Japanese culture">
Category:Japanese culture


</doc>
<doc id="56042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56042" title="Naphtha">
Naphtha

Naphtha (not to be confused with Naphthalene) is the name for a number of intermediary products that occur when refining crude oil. They are liquid hydrocarbons. They are used to produce high octane gasoline products. The petrochemical industry also uses them to make olefins and solvents.

Typical naphtas are used for


</doc>
<doc id="56043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56043" title="Lukas Podolski">
Lukas Podolski

Lukas Podolski (born 4 June 1985 in Gliwice, Poland) is a Polish born German football player. He plays for Köln. From 2004 until 2006, he played for Köln. He has plays Germany national team. 

He is known for his fashion during press conferences. He often wears button down shirts and polished shoes. He has a girlfriend called Monika and they have a son. Their son's name is Louis, he was born in April 2008.

152||61||14||8||23||8||189||77
152||61||14||8||23||8||189||77

!Total||69||37


</doc>
<doc id="56044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56044" title="Naphthalene">
Naphthalene

Naphthalene (not to be confused with Naphtha) is a crystalline, white hydrocarbon, with a strong smell. It is best known as the main ingredient in mothballs, and is also in urinal deodorizer blocks. Other names for naphthalene are naphthalin, naphthaline, tar camphor, white tar, albocarbon, or naphthene. It is used as an antiseptic. In mothballs, it is used as an insecticide or pesticide. 

Naphthalene is toxic. In humans, being exposed to naphthalene can destroy red blood cells. Naphthalene may also cause cancer.



</doc>
<doc id="56051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56051" title="MySQL">
MySQL

MySQL is a database system used by many websites on the Internet.

MySQL was first released in May 1995 and a Windows version was released in January 1998. The latest version (5.1) was released in November 2008.

MySQL is compatible with many major programming languages. The most common one is PHP. An ODBC interface (called MyODBC) has been made so that users of Microsoft's ASP language can use MySQL.

Some of the largest MySQL users on the internet include:


Many PHP scripts also use MySQL. These include:





</doc>
<doc id="56052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56052" title="White phosphorus">
White phosphorus

White phosphorus is an incendiary weapon. It makes a bright light and smoke. Its main ingredient is one of the allotropes of the chemical element phosphorus. White phosphorus is toxic to humans. It can burn deep into soft tissue, it can be breathed in, or it can be ingested (eaten). Over time, these can cause death.

The use of incendiary weapons against civilians is forbidden since 1949. Were used by U.S. forces in Iraq in 2004.
White Phosphorous was also used in the Israeli invasion of Gaza during December 2008 through January 2009. These actions were supported by the US government. 


</doc>
<doc id="56054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56054" title="Miroslav Klose">
Miroslav Klose

Miroslav Klose (born June 9 1978 in Opole, Poland) is a Polish born German football player. From 1999 until 2004 he played for Kaiserslautern and from 2004 until 2007 for Werder Bremen. In 2007 changed to Bayern Munich. In 2011, he left Bayern Munich and joined the Italian team Lazio. On the Germany national team he has played in 112 matches since 2001 and scored 62 goals.

325||132||38||20||71||24||434||176
3||2||0||0||1||1||4||3
329||135||38||20||72||25||439||180


</doc>
<doc id="56056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56056" title="Mothball">
Mothball

Mothballs are small balls of chemical pesticide and deodorant.They are used when clothing and other articles susceptible to damage from mold or moth larvae are stored. Older mothballs were made primarily of naphthalene. Because naphthalene can catch fire easily, modern mothballs use 1,4-dichlorobenzene instead. Both of these ingredients have a strong, pungent smell often associated strongly with mothballs. Camphor, an insect repellent, can also be used in mothballs.

Their use when clothing is stored out-of-season led to the colloquial usage of the terms mothballed and put into mothballs to refer to anything which is put into storage or whose operation is suspended. Some claim that the use of the word in this sense derives from naval usage. When warships were laid up, the open ends of their gun barrels and other openings were covered in white material to prevent the entry of water. These white circles suggested mothballs.


</doc>
<doc id="56057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56057" title="Oliver Kahn">
Oliver Kahn

Oliver Rolf Kahn (born 15 June 1969 in Karlsruhe, Germany) is a former German football player. He also played the position of the goalkeeper for Bayern Munich. From 1988 until 1994, Kahn played for Karlsruhe. He has played 86 matches for the Germany national team.

After 2006 FIFA World Cup, he retired from the national team. After the season 2007/2008 he ended his career and stopped playing for his club Bayern Munich, too.

Kahn has won several titles with Bayern München, among them are the UEFA champions league, the UEFA cup, the intercontinental cup, eight national championships and six national cups.

In the world championships in 2002 he become vice champion with the German national team.

Kahns nicknames are "King Kahn" or "the titan".

557||0||82||0||142||0||781||0
557||0||82||0||142||0||781||0

!Total||86||0


</doc>
<doc id="56058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56058" title="Timo Hildebrand">
Timo Hildebrand

Timo Hidebrand (born 5 April 1979 in Worms, West Germany) is a German football player. He played Germany national team.

231||0||20||0||31||0||282||0
26||0||3||0||3||0||32||0
257||0||23||0||34||0||314||0

!Total||7||0


</doc>
<doc id="56060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56060" title="Philipp Lahm">
Philipp Lahm

Philipp Lahm (born November 11, 1983, in Munich, Germany) is a German football player. He plays as a defender for Bayern Munich and Germany national team.

From 2003 until 2005 he played for Stuttgart. He has played in the Germany national team since 2004.

157||6||18||1||43||2||218||9
157||6||18||1||43||2||218||9

!Total||63||3


</doc>
<doc id="56061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56061" title="Valencia C.F.">
Valencia C.F.

Valencia C.F. is a football team in Spain.


Goalkeeper:

Defence:

Midfield:

Attack:


</doc>
<doc id="56063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56063" title="Category:Japanese politicians">
Category:Japanese politicians


</doc>
<doc id="56065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56065" title="Help:Changes">
Help:Changes

Wikipedia is an encyclopedia where anybody can change anything. So how can you get started as a Wikipedian? It's called contributing, or adding to stuff, and it's really easy to do.

Is the page you're looking for not there? If you are logged in, then you can create it. Add as much information as you can, and if the article is less than a paragraph, add this: <nowiki></nowiki> at the end.

You might want to get some to help you write an article.

You should add your article to a category by typing <nowiki></nowiki> at the end of your article, and replace A Category with the right category. You can do this as many times as you want to. You can also find a category by looking at similar articles.

When you have finished writing your article, click Show Preview to make sure your changes are the way you want them to be. When you think it's okay, click Save Page.

There are already articles on this Wikipedia, so you might find that an article you wanted to create has already been made. That's okay, because you can add, change, and even take away information in articles that have already been made.

You need to click "Change this page" at the top, and the Wikitext of the page will show. Wikitext is the coding that allows pages to be made. You can change this to add your knowledge to the page.

Remember to follow the guidelines and only add sourced information. Once you've finished, save the page by clicking on Save Page.


</doc>
<doc id="56066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56066" title="Category:Chilean politicians">
Category:Chilean politicians


</doc>
<doc id="56067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56067" title="Bastian Schweinsteiger">
Bastian Schweinsteiger

Bastian Schweinsteiger (born 1 August 1984, in Kolbermoor, Germany) is a German football player. He plays as midfielder for Bayern Munich and the Germany national team. He has a brother, Tobias, who is also a footballer and is playing for Unterhaching in the third German league.
Schweinsteiger signed with Bayern Munich as a youth team player on 1 July 1998 and soon was successful with the youth teams and the second team. He made his debut in the first team as substitute in an UEFA Championsleague match versus RC Lens in November 2002. onla a short time later he signed a professional contract for the first team. He shot his first Bayern goal against VfL Wolfsburg in September 2003.

At the beginning of the 2005/06 season he was sent back to the second team but soon came back. Over the next three seasons, up until the end of 2007–08, Schweinsteiger made 135 appearances in all competitions for Bayern Munich (UEFA Champions League, Bundesliga and German Cup), scoring 10 goals. In December 2010, he prlonged his contract with Bayern until 2016.

Bastian Schweinsteiger made his international debut in 2004 in a friendly against Hungary. Since that time he played regularly in the German football national team. He was member of the Euro 2004 and 2008 - and World Cup 2006 and 2010 squads.

184||20||24||4||47||5||255||29
184||20||24||4||47||5||255||29

!Total||72||19






</doc>
<doc id="56068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56068" title="Feller Bach">
Feller Bach

The Feller Bach is a right tributary of the Moselle River in Rhineland-Palatinate (Germany). Its source is in the Hunsrück mountains. It flows through the villages Lorscheid ("Verbandsgemeinde" Ruwer), Fell and Riol ("Verbandsgemeinde" Schweich). It joins the Moselle in Riol. 

At the left there is the Thommer Bach in the Nossernvalley with the 
Fell Exhibition Slate Mine (Besucherbergwerk Fell).


</doc>
<doc id="56072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56072" title="Per Mertesacker">
Per Mertesacker

Per Mertesacker (born 29 September 1984 in Hanover, West Germany) is a German football player. He started playing for Werder Bremen in 2006. Before that, he played for Hannover. He plays for the German national team. 

154||12||14||2||32||3||200||17
154||12||14||2||32||3||200||17

!Total||59||1


</doc>
<doc id="56073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56073" title="Category:Peruvian politicians">
Category:Peruvian politicians


</doc>
<doc id="56074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56074" title="Category:Peruvian people">
Category:Peruvian people


</doc>
<doc id="56075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56075" title="Bernd Schneider">
Bernd Schneider

Bernd Schneider (born 17 November 1973 in Jena, Germany) is a former German footballer. He has played for Germany national team.

451||54
451||54

!Total||81||4


</doc>
<doc id="56076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56076" title="David Odonkor">
David Odonkor

David Odonkor (born February 21, 1984 in Bünde, Germany) is a German football player. At the moment, he plays for Real Betis Balompié. Until 2006, he was playing for Borussia Dortmund. For the Germany national team he has played 16 matches and made 1 goal.

75||2
40||1
115||3

!Total||16||1


</doc>
<doc id="56077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56077" title="Category:Chinese politicians">
Category:Chinese politicians


</doc>
<doc id="56079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56079" title="Black Entertainment Television">
Black Entertainment Television

Black Entertainment Television (BET) is an American cable television television network. It is based in Washington, D.C.. The network is targeted toward African-American audiences in the United States. Most of what it shows is hip-hop and R&B music videos as well as religious shows and movies and series for African-Americans.

BET was founded by Robert L. Johnson on January 25, 1980. The network started out as a two-hour Friday night show on the USA Network each week. It was on from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. (EST). They mostly showed older movies and music videos. In May of that year, BET started showing Black collegiate sporting events. In November 1980, BET added two half-hour shows, "Black Showcase" and "The Bobby Jones Gospel Show". On June 26, 1983, BET started showing "Video Soul", a music video series. On October 1, 1983, BET started broadcasting 24 hours daily with help from Home Box Office. In the latter years, BET has moved from having a variety of Black entertainment to mostly showing music videos around the clock. who now owns it.




</doc>
<doc id="56080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56080" title="Country Music Television">
Country Music Television

CMT (Country Music Television) is an American country music cable television channel.



</doc>
<doc id="56083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56083" title="Johnny Carson">
Johnny Carson

John William "Johnny" Carson (October 23, 1925 – January 23, 2005) was an American actor, comedian and writer. He is best known as the host of "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson".


</doc>
<doc id="56085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56085" title="TNT (band)">
TNT (band)

TNT is a Norwegian hard rock/heavy metal band. The band was formed in Trondheim in 1982.




</doc>
<doc id="56087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56087" title="Category:Norwegian bands">
Category:Norwegian bands


</doc>
<doc id="56089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56089" title="Anarcho-capitalism">
Anarcho-capitalism

Anarcho-capitalism is a libertarian and anarchist philosophy that is against the idea of political government, and for economic government through free market capitalism by means of the natural law of supply and demand.

Anarcho-capitalists think that people can protect themselves without any political government. Instead of putting a stop to intrusion with politics and bureaucracy, people naturally want to protect themselves and their things, so they agree to pay other people such as arbitrators, insurers, and private security companies to protect them through the marketplace. Anarcho-capitalists say that the government is a thief, because it takes taxes away from people against their will, and keeps them from making agreements between themselves.


</doc>
<doc id="56090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56090" title="Walther von der Vogelweide">
Walther von der Vogelweide

Walther von der Vogelweide (born about 1170; died possibly in Würzburg around 1230) was a famous German poet and composer. He was the greatest of the German Minnesinger. These were people who wrote and sang songs about courtly love. Walther himself may have added “von der Vogelweide” to his name (it means “of the bird meadow”).

The German courtly love songs that had been written at the time were all very similar, but Walther gave these songs new life and made them very beautiful. Unfortunately we do not know any of his music, because he did not write it down. But he wrote his poems down. They are very original, sometimes humorous, sometimes serious, often just gently suggesting ideas carefully.

We do not know where Walther was born, but he wrote in a document that he had learned to sing and write poetry in Austria. The dialect he spoke shows that he must have come from Bavaria or Austria. He spent some time at the court of Duke Leopold V of Babenberg in Vienna. This was about 1190. He took part in public singing contests and had long discussions with other people about love and the way it should be written about in poetry.

In about 1198 he left Vienna and spent many years travelling around, visiting courts in Europe, entertaining dukes and princes, and singing his songs. He always wrote the words himself, he never used other poets’ words. That would have made him a simple “Spielmann”, but Walther was of noble birth (he had the title “Herr”). He often spent several weeks or months in a castle where he entertained people, and where he probably also fell in love with one of the ladies. He wrote about these love-affairs in his poetry.

Walther also wrote verses called “Sprüche" ("sayings"). These were about the history of the time. They were a kind of political propaganda and were used in political debates. Walther supported Emperor Otto IV in his arguments against the pope, persuading the emperor to go on the crusade which the pope had forbidden. We do not know whether Walther went with him on the crusade.

By this time Walther had became very famous, not just as a poet and musician but as a kind of political adviser. Walther was the first poet to write national and patriotic poetry. He also wrote a type of love poem which was new in German literature. "Unter der Linde" is the most famous of these. Here are the first two verses:


</doc>
<doc id="56091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56091" title="Category:Medieval poets">
Category:Medieval poets


</doc>
<doc id="56092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56092" title="Striptease">
Striptease

Striptease is an art some people practice. Striptease is about undressing in an erotic way. This is usually done before an audience. Very often it is done in night clubs. The art of it is the . It is about sexually arousing the audience. The teasing is usually done by delaying to take something off. It can also be done by hiding certain parts of the body with hands or pieces of clothing. While undressing, the person doing the striptease also dances around. Sometimes, plays are arranged, the strippers are disguised as Arabic dancers, Salome, Lolita or other well-known people. The spectator sometimes identifies with the stripper. Erotic dreams and exhibitionist fantasies are projected into the striptease. A naked body can never fulfill these projections. 

Today, most striptease dancers are women.

There are different possibilities how striptease could have started. One of them is that the erotic dance, Salome did for Herodes was in fact a striptease. But neither Salome, nor her dancing are mentioned in the Bible. Therefore this can only be seen as a try to give striptease a history.

Lydia Thompson and the "British Blondes" were the first to no longer use long robes, but rather tight stockings and skirts. In 1868 they showed what had been hidden until then: The legs of a woman. Another sensation came from Paris at that time. A dance, called Cancan. This dance was seen as very wild, even as an obscenity. 

The first professionally done striptease dance was done in 1894, in Paris. It resulted in a fine for the dancer. 

Starting in 1905, a lady calling herself Mata Hari entered the scene. On the invitation of Emile Guimet she danced before a carefully chosen audience. The scene at the end of the show, where she was "naked"became a sensation. Similar performances, at the requests of Baron von Rothschild, Cécile Sorel, Gaston Menier and Natalie Clifford Barney followed. Mata Hari had never learned how to dance, and had never studied Indian and oriental dancing. Her dances were a product of her imagination. In 1917, Mata Hari was charged with espionage and sentenced to death. She was shot, on October 15,1917, in Vincennes, near Paris. 

Many women danced as Salome, at the end of the 19th century. Salome was taken as a pretext to be able to show off the female body. Many of these dancers undressed, but some kept their clothes on. 

In the 1920s, Anita Berber became known in Berlin because of her dances. Anita Berber was a dancer, and performing artist. Most of her dances she did in the nude. Many of her performances provoked tumultous scenes. In practically no time, she was well-known, but already had an image laden with scandal. 

After the war, in the 1950s striptease became the motor of an emerging sex industry (mainly focused on publications, like Playboy). Paris saw the opening of the high-society strip clubs, like the Alcazar or the Crazy Horse. 

In modern times, the art of it gets lost more and more. In the 1990s, a German private TV channel (called RTL) made a strip show called Tutti Frutti. Since then, during the night, many private TV stations have women, who try to get rid of their clothes (without even dancing), while they advertise some phone sex numbers (or other prime-rate numbers). 

There is also a film called "Striptease". It plays in US strip clubs, without giving much background information.

Originally, striptease was only done by women. They wanted to seduce male voyeurs. Today, a very small number of male strippers are there. Among the most notable of them are the Chippendales.


</doc>
<doc id="56093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56093" title="Roald Dahl">
Roald Dahl

Roald Dahl (born 13 September 1916 – died 23 November 1990) was a British writer. He wrote many famous children's stories and adult horror stories. Many of his books and stories have been made into films and TV shows all over the world.

Among his most popular books are "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "James and the Giant Peach", "Matilda", "The Witches", "The BFG", and "Kiss Kiss". Many of his children's books have pictures drawn by Quentin Blake. His parents are from Norway.

There is a Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre in Great Missenden which shows the work of Roald Dahl.


</doc>
<doc id="56101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56101" title="Let There Be Rock">
Let There Be Rock

Let There Be Rock is a studio album by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It was released on June 23, 1977.



</doc>
<doc id="56108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56108" title="Electrical energy">
Electrical energy

Electrical energy can refer to several closely related things. It can mean:


In any of these cases, the SI unit of electrical energy is the joule. The unit used by many electrical utility companies is the watt-hour (Wh), which is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load, such as a tiny light bulb, drawing power for one hour. The kilowatt-hour (kWh), which is 1,000 times larger than a watt-hour, is a useful size for measuring the energy use of households and small businesses and also for the production of energy by small power plants. A typical household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month. The megawatt-hour (MWh), which is 1,000 times larger than the kilowatt-hour, is used for measuring the energy output of large power plants. 

The terms "electrical energy" and "electric power" are frequently used interchangeably. However, in physics, and electrical engineering, "energy" and "power" have different meanings. Power is energy per unit time. The SI unit of power and electricity is the watt. One watt is a joule per second. In other words, the phrases "flow of power," and "consume a quantity of electric power" are both incorrect and should be changed to "flow of energy" and "consume a quantity of electrical energy."



</doc>
<doc id="56109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56109" title="Power (physics)">
Power (physics)

In physics, power (symbol: "P") is the rate at which work is performed or energy is transferred. In the SI system of measurement, power is measured in watts (symbol: W). 

It may take a certain amount of work to effect a change in the world, like lifting a heavy weight to a higher level. It makes no difference if the weight is lifted slowly or quickly, the same amount of work will have been performed. The difference between a slow lift and a quick lift is that a quick lift requires more Power. That is the work can be done in a shorter time if there is more power available.

As a rate of change of work done or the energy of a subsystem, power is:

where

Power is also equal to force times velocity (or speed).

In optics, or radiometry, the term "power" sometimes refers to radiant flux, the average rate of energy transport by electromagnetic radiation, measured in watts. But the term "power" is also used to express the ability of a lens or other optical device to focus light. It is measured in dioptres (inverse metres), and is equal to one over the focal length of the optical device.


</doc>
<doc id="56110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56110" title="List of Byzantine Emperors">
List of Byzantine Emperors

This is a list of the Emperors of the late Eastern Roman Empire, called Byzantine by modern historians. This list does not include many of the emperors that rules with someone else.

The title of all Emperors before Heraclius was Augustus, but other titles such as Dominus were also used. After Heraclius, the title was changed to the Greek Basileus. This title used to mean "king", "sovereign" but now was used in place of Augustus. The emperors of the 15th century called themselves "Basileus ton Hellinon" ("Emperor of the Greeks") but they were still "Roman" Emperors.

This list begins with Constantine I the Great, the first Christian emperor reigning from Constantinople. 

At around this time the emperors began using the title "Βασιλευς Βασιλεων Βασιλευων Βασιλευσιν", that is, "King of Kings, ruling over Kings."

In 1453 Mehmed II overthrew the Byzantine Empire and claimed the title of Kaisar; his successors continued this claim. See Ottomans for the complete list of Ottoman sultans.




</doc>
<doc id="56112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56112" title="Template:Infobox Guitarist">
Template:Infobox Guitarist


</doc>
<doc id="56114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56114" title="Maroon 5">
Maroon 5

Maroon 5 is a pop-rock band from Los Angeles, California formally known as Kara's Flowers. The band signed under "A&M/Octone records" in 2003 and released the album "Songs About Jane" along with other studio releases like "It Won't Be Soon Before Long" and "Hands All Over". The band has released the well known hit singles "This Love", "She Will Be Loved", "Makes Me Wonder", "Wake Up Call", "Misery", and "Never Gonna Leave This Bed". The band won "Best New Artist" at the 2005 Grammy Awards. 

The group released the single "Moves Like Jagger" featuring pop singer Christina Aguilera on June 22, 2011 in promotion of the NBC show "The Voice". The song became #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 single's chart. The band also stated that they would be working on a fourth studio released before 2012 comes around. A song titled "Life After you" was said to be recorded and released in early 2012. 

In 1996 the known today as "Maroon 5" was a Los Angeles, California grunge band made up of singer Adam Levine, guitarist Jesse Carmichael, percussionist Ryan Dusick, and bassist Michael "Micky" Madden, in which who are all in the band today except for Dusick. In 1998, the group signed to Reprise Records and released the studio album "The Fourth World" on August 19th, 1998. However, the group disbanded in 2000 to come back in 2002 as today's well known "Maroon 5". In 2002, the additional member James Valentine (guitarist) joins the band. However, 2004, Dusick disbanded and replacing him as the drummer is Matt Flynn. He is still in the band today. The band's debut album, released on 2003, as Maroon 5, was titled "Songs About Jane" and released the hit singles "Harder to Breathe", "This Love", and "She Will Be Loved".








</doc>
<doc id="56116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56116" title="Jens Lehmann">
Jens Lehmann

Jens Lehmann (born 10 November 1969 in Essen, Germany) is a German football player. He has played for Arsenal since 2003. Lehmann is the goalkeeper of the Germany national team. He has played 61 matches for the national team.

Jens Lehmann has played for Arsenal joining the team in November 2002. He was an important part of their success during their "Invincibles" season where Arsenal won the title without losing a single game. He has had lots of memories playing for Arsenal but during the 2007-2008 season he got injured and then was replaced by Manuel Almunia after a poor start to the season. He came back on December the 1st from his knee injury. Now Jens has played 1 or 2 games for Germany and now is probably going to quit Arsenal and he is thinking to go to a German team. And now Arsenal have to say another goodbye to their 3rd recent mover. 

Jens has just began to play again after his bad injury (knee injury). He played at least a game for Germany on December the 6th 2007. Unfortunantly he let in 3 goals and saved 22 from going in to the goals. Jens now might live in Germany forever because he is leaving Arsenal and moves in July 2008 to Stuttgart.

437||2||0||0||2||0||23||0||462||2
5||0||||||||||||||5||0
145||0||13||0||0||0||36||0||194||0
587||2||13||0||2||0||59||0||661||2

!Total||61||0


</doc>
<doc id="56117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56117" title="Karlsruher SC">
Karlsruher SC

Karlsruher SC is a German football club in the second division (2. Bundesliga).


Goalkeepers:

Defences:
Middlefields:

Strikers:

Winned Cups:

Championchips:

Pokalchampion:


</doc>
<doc id="56119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56119" title="A.C. Milan">
A.C. Milan

A.C. Milan is an Italian football club.

They were started in 1899 by two Englishmen, Herbet Kilpin and Alfred Edwards after a heavy drinking session in the Fiaschetteria Toscana tavern in Milan. 

Herbet Kilpin became the first team coach and captain whilst Alfred Edwards became the first club president.

Their first name was Milan Cricket and Football Club. They have won the Serie A football league 18 times and the Coppa Italia football cup 5 times. They have won more things than any Italian club except for Juventus. In season 2005/06 they were punished for setting up the results. They started the 2006/07 season with an 8 point deficit, but they managed to end up fourth and win the UEFA Champions League qualification games. A.C.Milan won the 2006/07 UEFA Champions League in the final at Athens versus Liverpool. 2 to 1 was the score for the Italian team.

They play at the Stadio Giuseppe Meazza Stadium, also known as San Siro because Giuseppe Meazza was a star playing for arch rival, Internazionale Milano in Milan, Italy.

This season Milan is playing for the UEFA Champions League and for the Serie A. In January A.C. Milan was defeated by Catania Calcio in the Italian Cup.
Resultes of matches:
A.C.Milan 1-2 Catania Calcio
Catania Calcio 1-1 A.C Milan





</doc>
<doc id="56120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56120" title="Germany national football team">
Germany national football team

The Germany national football team is the national football team in Germany. The team has won 1954 FIFA World Cup, 1974 FIFA World Cup and 1990 FIFA World Cup. The team came as second in the, 1966 FIFA World Cup, 1982 FIFA World Cup, 1986 FIFA World Cup and in 2002 FIFA World Cup. In 1934 FIFA World Cup, 1970 FIFA World Cup, 2006 FIFA World Cup and 2010 FIFA World Cup, the team got third place. The teams current coach is Joachim Löw, who took over from Jürgen Klinsmann.

From 1950 to 1990, the team was mainly West Germany. Other teams were around that are now part of Germany. These include the East German team (1952-1990) and the Saarland team (1950-1956).

Germany has always been one of the best teams in the world. Germany is the only team to have won men's and women's world cup titles! Also, Germany's main rivals are England, the Netherlands and Argentina.

Germany's current FIFA ranking is third, but the team is predicted to stay the same because of the draw with the Ukraine, and the win against the Netherlands.

Players who played in the 2006 FIFA World Cup were:

Its players in UEFA Euro 2008 were:

The squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup:





</doc>
<doc id="56121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56121" title="Larissa">
Larissa

Larissa (Greek: Λάρισα) is the capital city of the Thessaly periphery of Greece, and capital of the Larissa Prefecture. Larissa is found in the north of the Thessaly plain near at the foot of the mountain Olympus. Its population is 131,496 inhabitants. Larissa is crossed by Pineios river. The most interest sight in Larissa is the ancient theater which is located in the center of the city. 


</doc>
<doc id="56123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56123" title="Category:AC/DC">
Category:AC/DC


</doc>
<doc id="56124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56124" title="Category:Rock bands">
Category:Rock bands


</doc>
<doc id="56125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56125" title="Category:Bands by genre">
Category:Bands by genre


</doc>
<doc id="56126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56126" title="Category:Heavy metal">
Category:Heavy metal

Articles dealing with heavy metal music.


</doc>
<doc id="56130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56130" title="Steven Gerrard">
Steven Gerrard

Steven George Gerrard (born 30 May 1980) is an English football player. Gerrard is currently playing for Liverpool, where he wears the number 8 shirt. He is the England vice captain, for which he wears the number 4. He usually plays as a central midfielder.

Gerrard was born in Whiston Hospital but he grew up in the Liverpool suburb of Huyton.
Gerrard was engaged to Alex Curran and they got married on 16 June 2007. They have two daughters: Lilly-Ella Gerrard (born on 23 February 2004) and Lexie Gerrard (born on 9 May 2006).

On 1 September 2006, he published his first autobiography, entitled "Gerrard: My Autobiography".

333||71||26||9||19||7||101||32||484||119
333||71||26||9||19||7||101||32||484||119

!Total||77||16


</doc>
<doc id="56133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56133" title="Ikebana">
Ikebana

Ikebana (Japanese: 生け花 or いけばな) is the Japanese art of making flower arrangements. The word "Ikebana" means "flowers kept alive". People who want to do Ikebana have to learn many things. It is not just about putting flowers in a vase. Japanese flower arrangements often have special meanings.

There are many ways in which Ikebana can be taught. These schools (ways of teaching) include Ikenobo, Sogetsu, Ohara.

Ikenobo is very well known. Until the 1930s it was only for upper class people. Ikenobo was started by a Buddhist priest called Ikenobo Senkei in the 15th century. It uses standing flowers (called "rikka"). It is a Buddhist way of showing the beauty of nature. There are 7 branches. Each branch represents something in nature, e.g. a hill, valley, waterfall etc. Later, in the 17th century, it became simpler and was called "shoka". Shoka uses just 3 branches called "ten" (heaven), "chi" (earth) and "jin" (man). 

Another form of Ikebana is called "nageire". It is used in tea ceremony.

Today Ikebana is very popular among all classes of people in Japan. 15 million people in Japan practice Ikebana.


</doc>
<doc id="56135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56135" title="Category:Children's writers">
Category:Children's writers


</doc>
<doc id="56136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56136" title="Category:Welsh writers">
Category:Welsh writers


</doc>
<doc id="56144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56144" title="Venom (band)">
Venom (band)

Venom is a black metal band from Newcastle upon Tyne, England. The band was formed in 1979. Venom is considered to be (one of) the first Black Metal bands.






</doc>
<doc id="56146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56146" title="Venom">
Venom

Venom may mean different things:



</doc>
<doc id="56148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56148" title="Scottsdale, Tasmania">
Scottsdale, Tasmania

Scottsdale is a town in the north-east of Tasmania, Australia. It is 63 km northeast of Launceston and 22 km southeast of town of Bridport. It is part of the Dorset Council.

The area was first surveyed in 1855 and was described as, ""the best soil on the island ... well watered, with a mild climate"" by surveyor James Scott. The town was named after him. Scottsdale is now a major agricultural centre.


</doc>
<doc id="56155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56155" title="Torsten Frings">
Torsten Frings

Torsten Frings (born 22 November 1976 in Würselen, Germany) is a German football player. At the moment he playes for the Canadian soccer club Toronto FC. Before his change, he played for the German club Werder Bremen, Bayern Munich (2004 until 2005), Borussia Dortmund (2002 until 2004) and Werder Bremen (1997 until 2002).

He has played for the Germany national team since 2001.

397||50||21||2||11||2||61||9||490||63
397||50||21||2||11||2||61||9||490||63

!Total||79||10


</doc>
<doc id="56162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56162" title="Category:69 BC births">
Category:69 BC births


</doc>
<doc id="56163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56163" title="Category:69 BC">
Category:69 BC


</doc>
<doc id="56176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56176" title="Wikipedia:Shortcut">
Wikipedia:Shortcut

A shortcut on Wikipedia is a quick way of getting to policies, guidelines and project pages.

They are shown in boxes to the right of the pages which they go to. You can type them in the Go box on the left of the page to get there easier.


</doc>
<doc id="56177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56177" title="David Letterman">
David Letterman

David Michael Letterman (born April 12, 1947) is an American late night television host. His first important success was on the NBC television show "Late Night with David Letterman". In 1993, he switched to the CBS show, "The Late Show". 

Letterman's ironic comedy is similar to comedians such as Andy Kaufman, Ernie Kovacs, and "Tonight Show" hosts Johnny Carson and Steve Allen.


</doc>
<doc id="56178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56178" title="Tide">
Tide

A tide is the periodic rising and falling of Earth's ocean surface caused by the tidal forces and the gravitational pull of the Moon and the Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine (sea) and estuarine (river mouth) waters. Tides also make currents known as tidal streams. This means that being able to predict the tide is important for coastal navigation. The strip of seashore that is under water at high tide and exposed at low tide, called the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides.





</doc>
<doc id="56179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56179" title="Tidal force">
Tidal force

Tidal force is caused by gravity and makes tides happen. This is because the gravitational field changes across the middle of a body (the diameter). 



</doc>
<doc id="56180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56180" title="Tidal energy">
Tidal energy

Tidal energy, sometimes called "tidal power", is the power achieved by capturing the energy contained in moving water in tides and open ocean currents. 

There are two types of energy systems that can be used to extracted energy: kinetic energy, the moving water of rivers, tides and open ocean currents; and potential energy from the difference in height (or "head") between high and low tides. The first method - generating energy from tidal currents - is becoming more and more popular because people believe that it does not harm the environment as much as barrages or dams. Many coastal sites worldwide are being examined for their suitability to produce tidal (current) energy.

Tidal power is classified as a renewable energy source, because tides are caused by the orbital mechanics of the solar system (ocean currents are caused by the surface effect of winds) and are considered inexhaustible. The root source of the energy is the orbital kinetic energy of the earth-moon system, and also the earth-sun system. Tidal power has great potential for future power and electricity generation because of the essentially inexhaustible amount of energy contained in these rotational systems. Tidal power is reliably predictable (unlike wind power and solar power). In Europe, Tide Mills have been used for nearly 1,000 years, mainly for grinding grains.




</doc>
<doc id="56181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56181" title="Evangeline Lilly">
Evangeline Lilly

Nicole Evangeline Lilly (born August 3, 1979) is a Canadian actress. She is well-known for her role as Katherine "Kate" Austen on the television show "Lost".

Evangeline was once married to Canadian hockey player Murray Hone. She also dated Dominic Monaghan, who was also on "Lost". The two broke up in 2007.

Her nicknames include "Evi" and "Monkey". The other actors on "Lost" gave her the name "Monkey" because she can climb trees easily, a skill that her character Kate also has. "Lost"-actor Josh Holloway also calls her "Freckles", sharing the nickname his character Sawyer gave her.



</doc>
<doc id="56183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56183" title="View">
View

A view is what can be seen in somebody's vision. A view can also be a very scenic image. It can also be someone's opinion on something or how they look at something.

There are many types of views.




</doc>
<doc id="56187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56187" title="Greystones">
Greystones

Greystones () is a coastal town in County Wicklow, Ireland. It is located on Ireland’s east coast, south of Bray and south of Dublin (it is within the Greater Dublin Area), with a population in the region of 15,000.



</doc>
<doc id="56197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56197" title="Courtly love">
Courtly love

Courtly love was a special idea of love that people had in Europe in the Middle Ages. The word “court” in this sense means the courts where princes or dukes lived. Courtly love is usually when a young man, who may be a knight or even a simple musician, falls in love with a rich lady and tries to make himself of her by doing brave things or by singing beautiful love songs.

The idea of courtly love can be found in a lot of literature of that time, e.g. in works by Geoffrey Chaucer, Dante, Gottfried von Strassburg, Walther von der Vogelweide, Wolfram von Eschenbach, Malory and William Shakespeare. 



</doc>
<doc id="56205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56205" title="Royal court">
Royal court

A royal court or noble court is a place where an important ruler such as a king, prince or duke live. The building is often called a palace, but the “royal court” means not just the buildings but all the royal household (all the people who live and work there).

It is called a court because in early times the palace would have a court (an enclosed space) at the front.

In history there were great rulers who held important courts, e.g. Charlemagne.

A famous example is Hampton Court on the river Thames in London where Henry VIII had his court. Today the Queen holds court at Buckingham Palace.

People who work at court are “court officials”.



</doc>
<doc id="56206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56206" title="Category:Nobility">
Category:Nobility


</doc>
<doc id="56218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56218" title="Template:Country alias Italy">
Template:Country alias Italy

Italy

</doc>
<doc id="56219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56219" title="Template:Country flag alias Italy">
Template:Country flag alias Italy

Flag of Italy.svg

</doc>
<doc id="56237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56237" title="Chris Gueffroy">
Chris Gueffroy

Chris Gueffroy (21 June 1968–6 February 1989) was the last person to die while trying to escape across the Berlin Wall.

Gueffroy and his friend Christian Gaudian tried to escape from East Berlin to West Berlin on the night of 5 to 6 February 1989. They tried to cross near the Britz district canal.

Gueffroy and Gaudian thought that the "Schießbefehl", the order to shoot anyone who attempted to cross the wall, had been stopped. Climbing the last metal fence, the two were seen and shot at by the National People's Army (NVA) border troops. Gueffroy was hit in the chest by ten shots and died in the border strip.

Gaudian was badly injured, and was arrested and was sentenced on 24 May 1989 to imprisonment for three years by the Pankow district court for trying illegally to cross the border (""versuchten ungesetzlichen Grenzübertritts im schweren Fall"").

In September 1989 Gaudian was freed on bail by the East German government and on 17 October 1989 he was transferred to West Berlin.
The four border guards at first got an award ("Leistungsabzeichen der Grenztruppen") from the chief of the local border guards, Erich Wöllner, and a prize of 150 East German Marks each. After the reunification of East and West Germany, they were prosecuted by Berlin regional court. Two of them were released in January 1992. Ingo Heinrich, who fired the shot that killed Gueffroey was sentenced to three and a half years in jail. The Bundesgerichtshof reduced the penalty to a suspended sentence of two years in 1994.

In 2000, two SED officials, Siegfried Lorenz and Hans-Joachim Böhme, were tried for the death of Gueffroy and two other young men, but acquitted as the judge could find no evidence that they might have been able to lift the shoot-to-kill order. The case was retried on 7 August 2004, and the two men were found guilty and given suspended sentences of 15 months each. The judge explained that the short sentences were due to the length of time since the events. This was the last case concerning deaths on the inner German border.

On 21 June 2003, which would have been his 35th birthday, a monument to Gueffroy was built on the banks of the Britz district canal. The monument was designed by Berlin artist Karl Biedermann.

Sven Hüber


</doc>
<doc id="56244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56244" title="Electricity generation">
Electricity generation

Electricity generation is the making of electricity for use by people.

Making electricity in one central place became possible with the use of power transformers which could change voltage. Electricity could be sent as alternating current along electric power lines for great distances cheaply.

Electricity has been generated for powering human technologies for at least 120 years. Different sources of energy have been used to run generators, including coal, nuclear, natural gas, hydroelectric, and petroleum power and a small amount from solar energy, tidal harnesses, wind generators, and geothermal sources.

The demand for electricity can be met in two different ways. The main method is to build large centralized projects to generate and transmit the electricity required. Many of these projects have caused unpleasant environmental effects such as air or radiation pollution and the flooding of large areas of land.

Distributed generation creates power on a smaller scale at locations on the electricity network. These sites often generate electricity as a byproduct of other industry such as using gas from landfills to power turbines.

Rotating turbines attached to electrical generators produce most commercially available electricity. Turbines are driven by a fluid which acts as an intermediate energy carrier. The fluids typically used are:

Combined cycle gas turbine plants are driven by both steam and gas. They generate power by burning natural gas in a gas turbine and use residual heat to generate additional electricity from steam. These plants offer efficiencies of up to 60%.

Small electricity generators are often powered by reciprocating engines burning diesel, biogas or natural gas. Diesel engines are often used for back up generation, usually at low voltages. Biogas is often combusted where it is produced, such as a landfill or wastewater treatment plant, with a reciprocating engine or a microturbine, which is a small gas turbine.

Unlike the solar heat concentrators, photovoltaic panels convert sunlight directly to electricity. Although sunlight is free, solar panels cost a lot of money to make and have only a 10-20% conversion efficiency. Until recently, photovoltaics were most commonly used in remote sites where there is no access to a commercial power grid, or as an extra electricity source for individual homes and businesses. Recent advances in manufacturing efficiency and photovoltaic technology, combined with subsidies driven by environmental concerns, have dramatically accelerated the deployment of solar panels. Installed solar capacity is growing by 30% per year in several regions including Germany, Japan, California and New Jersey.



</doc>
<doc id="56251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56251" title="Casey Kasem">
Casey Kasem

Casey Kasem (born Kemal Amin Kasem on April 27, 1932, in Detroit, Michigan of Palestinian/Lebanese heritage) is an American radio host and voice actor. He was the host of the weekly "American Top 40" radio show from 1970 to 1988, and again from March 1998 until January 10, 2004. Ryan Seacrest is now the host. Kasem is the host of two weekly radio shows, "American Top 20 with Casey Kasem" and "American Top 10 with Casey Kasem".

Kasem also provides the voice of many advertisements, has done many voices for "Sesame Street", and is the voice of 'Shaggy' for the animated television show "Scooby-Doo".



</doc>
<doc id="56259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56259" title="Bloc Party">
Bloc Party

Bloc Party are a British indie rock band. There are four people in the band. Kele Okereke does the vocals and plays rhythm guitar, Russell Lissack plays the lead guitar, Gordon Moakes plays bass guitar and Matt Tong plays the drums. The band's music has been compared to bands like The Cure, Gang of Four and The Strokes.

The band formed at the 1999 Reading Festival. They went through many names before Bloc Party was chosen in 2003. Moakes joined after reading an advertisement in "NME" magazine. Tong was picked through an audition. Bloc Party was first noticed by giving BBC Radio 1 DJ Steve Lamacq and Franz Ferdinand's lead singer Alex Kapranos a copy of its music demo, "She's Hearing Voices". This was later released as a single.

In February 2005, the band released their debut album "Silent Alarm". Lots of good things were said about it. It made "NME"'s Album of the Year list. The album was given platinum status in the UK a year later. The band released another album, "A Weekend in the City", in 2007. This reached number two on the UK album chart and number twelve in the "Billboard" 200. In August 2008, the band released their third album, "Intimacy".

Russell Lissack and Kele Okereke first met in 1998 in Essex. They saw each other again in 1999 at the Reading Festival and then decided to form a band. Bass guitar player Gordon Moakes joined after answering an advertisement in "NME", and drummer Matt Tong joined after an audition. They were called Union at the start, the band chose to call themselves Bloc Party in September 2003 as a on "". The band have said in interviews that the name was not supposed to be related to the Soviet Bloc or the Canadian political party Bloc Québécois. However, Gordon Moakes said on the group's official Internet forum that the name was made by joining the eastern "Blocs" and the western "parties", in the political sense. Moakes also said that the name was not chosen only for this reason, but because it "looked, sounded, and seemed fine, so we went with it."

In November 2003, Bloc Party had their song "The Marshals Are Dead" featured on a compilation album called "The New Cross" released by Angular Recording Corporation. They then released their debut single "She's Hearing Voices" on the record label Trash Aesthetics, which was new at the time.

The band were first noticed after lead singer Okereke went to a Franz Ferdinand concert in 2003. He gave a CD of "She's Hearing Voices" to both lead singer Alex Kapranos and Radio One DJ Steve Lamacq. Afterwards, Lamacq played the song on his radio show. He called the track "genius", and he invited them to record a live session for the show. The success of the track led to the release of another single, "Banquet", which was released by Moshi Moshi Records. They went on to sign with independent label Wichita Recordings in April 2004.

Bloc Party's first album, "Silent Alarm", was released in the UK in February 2005 on Wichita Recordings. In the United States, it was released in March 2005 by Vice Records. It was given a lot of praise. It was voted as the "NME" album of the year for 2005, and reached number three on UK album charts before being certified platinum. The first single from the album, "So Here We Are", made the top 5 on UK charts. Further, the singles "Banquet", "Helicopter" and "Pioneers", managed to reach the UK top 20 but did not do as well as "So Here We Are". The animated music video for "Pioneers" was made by Shoreditch-based designers Minivegas. It was number one in the "NME" video charts for four weeks.

The band got good reviews from critics in the United States, and they toured there a lot over 2006. At the start of 2006, they finished their tour with sold out shows in Los Angeles, Miami and Berkeley. The album went on to sell more than 350,000 copies in North America and over a million worldwide. After the success of the album, the established electronic group The Chemical Brothers soon with Okereke for "Believe", a track on the Brothers' "Push the Button" album. An album of remixes of tracks from "Silent Alarm" was released at the end of August in the UK. The album was called "Silent Alarm Remixed", and it kept the first album's song list.

During July, Bloc Party recorded two new tracks with "Silent Alarm" producer Paul Epworth. The songs were released as an extended play called "Two More Years". The release of this EP came with another release of "Silent Alarm", which had on it both "Two More Years" and old single "Little Thoughts". "Two More Years" was released later at the same time as their October 2005 UK tour. The single also had a remix of "Banquet" done by The Streets, for which a music video was also made.

The band also made the track "The Present" for the "" compilation album. The money raised from this album went to the War Child charity. In 2005, their album track "Like Eating Glass" was used on the soundtrack of a horror film called "Cry Wolf". It was also remixed for use on Activision's skateboarding game "Tony Hawk's American Wasteland".

Bloc Party's second album, "A Weekend in the City", was produced by Jacknife Lee. It was published by Wichita in the UK and Vice Records in the US and was released in February 2007. However, it was leaked in November 2006. It was released on the UK iTunes store before in shops, and reached second place in the Official UK Chart. The album did just as well in Australia and Belgium. It entered at number 12 in the "Billboard" 200, with 48,000 copies sold. The first single, "The Prayer", was released on 29 January. It became the single which did the best in the UK Top 40 for the band, reaching fourth place. Before the release of the album, BBC Radio 1 DJ Zane Lowe played a live recording of the band at the Maida Vale studio, featuring both old and new songs, on his radio show on 30 January 2007. On 1 February 2007, "A Weekend in the City" was made able free to listen to on the band's official MySpace page.

The next single, "I Still Remember", was Bloc Party's highest charting single in America. It got to number 24 on the Modern Rock Chart. The band released their third single, "Hunting for Witches", in August 2007. The single was their only ARIA Chart entry, getting to number 20.

In October 2007 Bloc Party said they would release a new single, "Flux", on 13 November—ahead of their end-of-year . The electronic song, also produced by Jacknife Lee, was very different from previous singles released by the band.

The band's first concert following the release of "A Weekend In The City" was on 5 February 2007, in Reading. It was played live on BBC 6 Music that night. On 20 May 2007, Bloc Party were the first band to play that year on the "In New Music We Trust" stage at the BBC Radio 1 Big Weekend at Preston. They also took part in the UK Live Earth concert on 7 July 2007 at Wembley Stadium. The band also played sets at T in the Park and Oxegen 2007 that same weekend, as well as Glastonbury and the Reading and Leeds Festivals. Bloc Party said that they would tour Australia and New Zealand in August 2007, which would include a special concert at the Splendour in the Grass Festival on 5 August. On 17 September 2007 they recorded a concert for the PBS show Austin City Limits. This was the day after playing at the Austin City Limits Music Festival. On 27 October 2007, the band performed with the Exmoor Singers, a London based choir, as part of the BBC Electric Proms. They played songs from both "Silent Alarm" and "A Weekend In The City" along with the first UK live performance of "Flux". During 2007, Russell Lissack formed his side project group Pin Me Down with Melina Mepris.

"Mercury", the first single from Bloc Party's third album "Intimacy", was played on Zane Lowe's BBC Radio 1 show on 7 July 2008. It then appeared on the Radio 1 website fifteen minutes later. The exclusive followed a countdown timer which was put in place of the band's website for three days, which ended with a link to the Radio 1 website at the time of Lowe's radio show. Many fans were expecting new songs over the internet, with some being annoyed by the act. The song had an electronic sound like the last single, "Flux". During the first play of "Mercury" on Radio 1, Kele was with Zane Lowe, and said that Jacknife Lee and Paul Epworth would be producing the new album. It was also said that the single was to be released on 11 August 2008. The video was put out with the single.

Bloc Party's third studio album has a new, electronic sound, even though Kele said this would not be the case. He had said before this that the sound would be as raw as "Silent Alarm", but as "experienced" as "A Weekend in the City". 

The band talked about the release of their third album with fans on a forum on 18 August 2008. The album then was made available for in many formats - a high-quality MP3 download with the CD release on 27 October 2008. "Trojan Horse", a song from the album, was made available to stream through "NME"'s website. On 20 August 2008, the band added more album tracks, "Signs" and "One Month Off", as well as "Trojan Horse", to their MySpace profile. On 23-24 August, 2008, the band played concerts at the Reading and Leeds Festivals. The band played set-opener "Mercury", as well as album track "One Month Off". A concert like that one followed a week later on 30 August 2008, when the band played as the main act at the Hydro Connect Music Festival, in Argyll, Scotland.

During Autumn 2008, the band played in North America and Canada. They played at the Virgin Mobile Festival in Toronto on 6 September 2008, and had their first ever American college show at Syracuse University. They had their next live performance in the UK on 30 September 2008 with a special concert in London as part of Q Awards: The Gigs. As well as this, they played at the Glasgow date of MTV Two and Topman's "Gonzo on Tour" on 19 October 2008. On 8 September 2008, Bloc Party said that their next single, "Talons" would be released on 20 October 2008. The song was not able to be downloaded as part of the pre-order album released on August 27, but did appear on the full album release on 27 October 2008. It was also given to fans who had already bought the download-only album, given out after the song's first play on Zane Lowe's BBC Radio 1 show.

After the digital release of "Intimacy", Bloc Party said to the public that they would go on another UK tour, starting on 25 January 2009 in Glasgow. They will then play in Manchester and Wolverhampton in the same month, with another gig in Wolverhampton on 1 February 2009. Their first UK tour since December 2007 will finish on 12 April 2009 in London. Also in early 2009, the band toured North America in many small places. In June 2009 they announced that their new single is called One More Chance. This song was not on Intimacy and was played on Radio One on the 18th of June 2009. It was released during August 2009.



</doc>
<doc id="56260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56260" title="VfR Mannheim">
VfR Mannheim

VfR Mannheim a German football team. It is located in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg. The club was formed in 1911.



</doc>
<doc id="56262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56262" title="S.V. Waldhof Mannheim">
S.V. Waldhof Mannheim

SV Waldhof Mannheim is a German football club. It is located in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg. The club was founded 1907. The club today has over 2,400 people. The team plays in the Regionalliga Süd the 4th German Football division.



</doc>
<doc id="56264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56264" title="Popular science">
Popular science

If a book or a TV show is about science, but it's made so it's easy for everyone to understand, then it is popular science. It has "popular" in its name because it's made for the whole "population", not just for scientists. Nature documentaries (nature shows) are examples of popular science.

Popular science is non-fiction, so it is not the same as "science fiction".

Popular science is also not the same as "Science journalism". Science journalism is what journalists write to report the newest theories and discoveries made in science, but popular science is not always about what is newest.

Some famous people who make popular science are Isaac Asimov, Jared Diamond, Stephen Hawking, Bill Nye, and Carl Sagan. 

When scientists write about their work, first they write books and periodicals meant for the same kind of scientists to read-- "scientific literature". The purpose of popular science is to show scientific literature in a way that different types of scientists, and people who are not scientists, will easily understand. When people take an idea from scientific literature and change it into popular science, important things about that idea are often left out or added in.

Scientific literature is made to seem like the ideas in it are not very new, and that the writer is not sure the idea is true. That way, other scientists will agree with the idea more. But popular science is made to be like other media, so many people will enjoy it. In popular science, ideas are made to sound like they are new, and like scientists all agree with the ideas. If scientific literature and popular science are compared, there is often a big difference. Even if most people agree about the subject, there is still a difference.

Some popular science is made by people who do not understand the subject well. Some is made by people who have a strong bias. Some is part science and part pseudoscience. It can be hard for someone who is not an expert to tell which works of popular science are misleading.


</doc>
<doc id="56265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56265" title="Lullaby">
Lullaby

A lullaby is a song which is sung to help a baby or small child go to sleep. Composers of classical music often wrote pieces for instruments to play (very often for piano solo) which they called "lullaby". They also used the French word "Berçeuse". Brahms wrote his famous "Wiegenlied" originally for a young singer, Bertha Faber, when she gave birth to her second son.

Lullabies always have a gentle, rocking rhythm with a simple accompaniment. Frédéric Chopin's "Berçeuse" is a lullaby for piano. Gabriel Fauré wrote one at the beginning of his "Dolly Suite" for piano duet. There are many other examples. 

Mothers sing lullabies to their children at bedtime. "Rock-a-bye Baby" and "Hush Little Baby" are two very well-known lullabies.


</doc>
<doc id="56276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56276" title="Category:Bands by country">
Category:Bands by country


</doc>
<doc id="56277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56277" title="Category:Japanese musicians">
Category:Japanese musicians


</doc>
<doc id="56281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56281" title="Category:Australian entertainers">
Category:Australian entertainers


</doc>
<doc id="56283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56283" title="Template:Country alias Canada">
Template:Country alias Canada

Canada

</doc>
<doc id="56284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56284" title="Template:Country flag alias Canada">
Template:Country flag alias Canada

Flag of Canada.svg

</doc>
<doc id="56285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56285" title="Lund">
Lund

Lund is a city in Scania, in the south of Sweden. About 80,000 people live there, which makes it the eleventh biggest city in Sweden. It is close to Malmö. The municipality has about 105,000 people. 

Lund is known for its university, Lund University (founded in 1666). It is the largest university in Scandinavia. The city is also known for its cathedral, Lund Cathedral ("Lunds domkyrka").

Lund is an old city. It was probably founded around the year 990, when Scania belonged to Denmark.


</doc>
<doc id="56286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56286" title="Template:Succession box/doc">
Template:Succession box/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
This template is used to show the previous and the next in a row of things.

<nowiki></nowiki>
<nowiki></nowiki>
<nowiki></nowiki>

This produces:

For more rows, just add more <nowiki></nowiki> tags.

<nowiki></nowiki>
<nowiki></nowiki>
<nowiki></nowiki>
<nowiki></nowiki>

This makes:

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="56292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56292" title="Guadalcanal">
Guadalcanal

Guadalcanal is the biggest island in the Solomon Islands. During World War II there was a battle there between the Americans and the Japanese.

Guadalcanal Campaign



</doc>
<doc id="56294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56294" title="1. FC Eintracht Bamberg">
1. FC Eintracht Bamberg

1. FC Eintracht Bamberg is a football team in Bamberg, Upper Franconia Germany. In 1946 they played as 1. FC Bamberg in the first Division. Now they are playing in the Fifth Division (Bayernliga) as FC Eintracht Bamberg.


</doc>
<doc id="56295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56295" title="FSV Frankfurt">
FSV Frankfurt

FSV Frankfurt is the second best football team in Frankfurt, Germany after Eintracht Frankfurt. In the season 2007/08 it became champion of the Regionalliga Süd. Since 2008 FSV Frankfurt plays in the 2. Bundesliga.



</doc>
<doc id="56296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56296" title="Joachim Löw">
Joachim Löw

Joachim Löw (born 3 February 1960) is a former German football player. He has been the manager of the German national team since summer 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="56297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56297" title="Polyhydroxyalkanoate">
Polyhydroxyalkanoate

Polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) is a biopolymer that is made by bacteria. It can break down naturally (it is biodegradable). PHA has the same qualities of plastic, but it uses renewable raw material such as sugar from crop, instead of finite natural resources such as crude oil, natural gas and coal . Some PHAs share properties with polypropylene, a plastic used to make ropes and packaging. Others are similar to rubber.


</doc>
<doc id="56298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56298" title="SpVgg Bayreuth">
SpVgg Bayreuth

SpVgg Bayreuth is a German football team in Bayreuth, Bavaria. It was founded in 1921 . It is the most successful football team in Upper Franconia. The club was banned in 1933 by the Nazis but restarted shortly after World War II. SpVgg Bayreuth playes in one of the Fourths Divisions, the Bayernliga. In the season 2005/2006, they played in the Third Division, the Regionalliga.


</doc>
<doc id="56306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56306" title="Max Reger">
Max Reger

Max Reger (born Brand, Bavaria, 19 March 1873; died 11 May 1916) was a German composer, organist, pianist and teacher.

Reger’s father was a schoolteacher who was an amateur musician. When he was a boy Max helped his father to rebuild an organ that was going to be thrown away. This was the instrument on which he learned to play. It was some time before he started proper lessons, but by the time he was a teenager he was playing the organ for church services. When he was 15 he went to Bayreuth to hear Wagner’s operas. This was the moment when Reger decided he wanted to become a musician.

Reger studied music in Munich and Wiesbaden with a famous teacher Hugo Riemann. He composed a lot of music, especially for the organ. His musical style was similar to that of Brahms, but he also learned a lot from the music of Bach, Mendelssohn and Schumann. He liked the symphonic poems of Liszt and these gave him the ideas for writing chorale fantasies for the organ, although he never wrote music that tells a story (programme music).

In 1902 Reger married. He and his wife adopted two children. In 1907 he became professor of composition at the University of Leipzig. He was a very good teacher. He became well-known abroad. He travelled to London where he spent hours in the art galleries. Then he bored his friends by talking all the time about the paintings. He conducted the orchestra at Meiningen, performing works by many composers, especially Brahms, Bruckner and his own.

Reger enjoyed eating and drinking. He regularly went to his local café where he would eat ten large sausages and drink ten glasses of beer. His health got bad, and he died of a heart attack in Leipzig, where he was visiting friends on his way home from the Netherlands.

Reger wrote an enormous amount of music, but very little of it is played nowadays. He wrote in a late-Romantic style. He is best remembered for his organ music. He liked to write fugues and sets of Variations. His "Fantasy and Fugue on BACH" is one of the hardest pieces ever written for organ. He wrote a lovely song called "Marias Wiegenlied" ("Mary’s lullaby).


</doc>
<doc id="56312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56312" title="Category:Basic physics ideas">
Category:Basic physics ideas

This category has ideas that are important to helping describe the physical world around us.


</doc>
<doc id="56313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56313" title="Category:Force">
Category:Force


</doc>
<doc id="56316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56316" title="Saint Stephen">
Saint Stephen

Saint Stephen (Greek: Στέφανος/Stephanos) is known as the first martyr of Christianity.

Therefore he is also called the Protomartyr (Greek: Πρωτομάρτυρας/Protomartyras). He is venerated as a saint in the Jewish Church, as well as in the Eastern Orthodox Church. His feast day was historically kept on August 3. His name means 'laurel wreath' or 'crown' in Greek.



</doc>
<doc id="56319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56319" title="The Dark Tower (series)">
The Dark Tower (series)

The Dark Tower is a series of seven books by American writer Stephen King that tells the tale of lead character Roland Deschain's quest for the "Dark Tower." 


</doc>
<doc id="56327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56327" title="Category:Matter">
Category:Matter


</doc>
<doc id="56328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56328" title="Jon Corzine">
Jon Corzine

Jon Stevens Corzine (born January 1, 1947) is an American politician. He was the 54th Governor of the state of New Jersey. He represented New Jersey in the United States Senate from 2001 until 2006, when he stepped down to take his seat as governor. On November 3, 2009, Jon Corzine lost re-election for another four years as governor. The person who won was Chris Christie, who became the governor on January 20, 2010. 


</doc>
<doc id="56329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56329" title="James McGreevey">
James McGreevey

James E. McGreevey (born August 6, 1957) was the 52nd Governor of New Jersey. He resigned as governor after he said he had an affair with a male employee. He was the only openly gay governor of any state in the history of the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="56331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56331" title="Physical quantity">
Physical quantity

A physical quantity is a quantity in physics that can be measured.Or a physical quantity is a physical property that can be quantified. Examples of physical quantities are mass, volume, length, time, temperature,electric current.


</doc>
<doc id="56332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56332" title="Category:Physical quantity">
Category:Physical quantity

This category is for physical quantities which are used and measured in Physics, Engineering, Chemistry, etc.


</doc>
<doc id="56337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56337" title="Helicopter rotor">
Helicopter rotor

A rotor is the rotating part of a helicopter which generates lift, either vertically in the case of a main rotor, or horizontally in the case of a tail rotor.

Before the development of powered helicopters in the mid 20th century, autogyro pioneer "Juan de la Cierva" researched and developed many of the basics of the rotor. Cierva is credited with successful development of multi-bladed, fully articulated rotor systems. This type of system is widely used today in many multi-bladed helicopters.



</doc>
<doc id="56340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56340" title="Variations (music)">
Variations (music)

In music, variation is a way of organizing a piece of music by taking a tune (a theme) and then repeating it in several different ways. It is often called Theme and Variations.

Many composers wrote pieces which are examples of Theme and Variations. Sometimes the theme is one they made up, at other times they took a theme that another composer had already written and then made variations on it.

There are lots of ways of varying a tune, and each variation will change it in a different way. A variation may play the tune much faster or much slower, it may change the tune by adding extra sharps and flats or other ornamental notes, or by playing the tune in octaves. It may change the harmony or the rhythm or use different instruments. It may combine the tune in different parts (counterpoint).

Composers have used variations in music for centuries. In the Renaissance and Baroque periods composers wrote variations on a short tune in the bass which was repeated again and again. This was called a ground bass or sometimes it was a passacaglia or chaconne. Renaissance composers also liked writing what they called “divisions”. This meant varying a tune by playing it, for example, at twice the speed or half the speed etc. so that crotchets (quarter notes) became minims (half notes) or quavers (eighth notes).

George Frideric Handel wrote a famous set of variations for harpsichord called "Harmonious Blacksmith", and Johann Sebastian Bach wrote the "Goldberg Variations", which was a set of 30 variations: a very long piece of music. It was written for a man who found it difficult to sleep at night, so he would ask his harpsichord player, whose name was Goldberg, to play to him.

Many composers from the Classical, Romantic and modern periods wrote sets of variations. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart wrote several, one of which was based on a French folktune which we know in Britain as “Twinkle, twinkle little star”. Beethoven wrote several wonderful sets of variations. Many of them were for piano, but he also used the form in other pieces e.g. the slow movement of his . Schubert often wrote variations on tunes from his own songs.

Other composers who wrote variations include Brahms, Elgar, Schoenberg, Britten and many more. 


</doc>
<doc id="56348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56348" title="Logo (programming language)">
Logo (programming language)

Logo is a programming language that is easy to learn. It is used to teach students and children to program a computer. It was developed to process lists of words. It was like the language LISP. 

In 1967, the first Logo ran on a mainframe computer, a machine called a teletype was used to type in and printout the results. There was no screen. 

In 1969, it was used to control a Floor Turtle. Commands were added to send the turtle forwards and backwards, and to turn the turtle to left or right. This turtle had pen with different colors. When it moved, it left a trail on the floor. 

This was very useful. When a new version of Logo was developed to draw graphics on a screen, it used the same commands. This was called Turtle graphics. 

There are 170 versions of Logo. Many of them are open source and free. There are three Logo textbooks that can be downloaded free. Logo is usually an interpreted language. 
Load the Logo program. Type the next line in the command box.

The computer replies.

A spiral drawn using recursion. 
Using the editor, type in this new definition.
Type this in the command box.

On the screen you will see.

Logo Programs

Online books


</doc>
<doc id="56349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56349" title="LISP">
LISP

LISP (or Lisp) is the name for a programming language. It is among the oldest programming languages that are still used today. Only Fortran is one year older. LISP was designed by John McCarthy in 1958. The best-known versions of LISP are Common Lisp, Scheme and Clojure. Many concepts that are used in modern programming languages were first created in Lisp.
Linked lists are a very important data structure in LISP. 
The basic concepts behind LISP are easy to learn. Logo is another version of Lisp that was made for children. Logo can help young children develop skills and become efficient within the programming language.


</doc>
<doc id="56350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56350" title="Lambda calculus">
Lambda calculus

In mathematical logic and computer science, lambda calculus, also λ-calculus, is a formal system. It was designed to investigate the definition of functions, and how to apply them. It is also a tool for analysing recursion. It was introduced by Alonzo Church and Stephen Cole Kleene in the 1930s. Church used lambda calculus in 1936 to give a negative answer to the Entscheidungsproblem. Lambda calculus can be used to define what a computable function is. No general algorithm can answer the question of whether two lambda calculus expressions are equivalent. This was the first question, even before the halting problem, for which undecidability could be proved. Lambda calculus has greatly influenced functional programming languages, such as LISP, ML and Haskell.

Lambda calculus can be called the smallest universal programming language. It consists of a single transformation rule (variable substitution) and a single function definition scheme. Lambda calculus is universal in the sense that any computable function can be expressed and evaluated using this formalism. It is thus the same as the Turing machine formalism. However, lambda calculus emphasizes the use of transformation rules. It does not care about the actual machine that implements them. It is an approach more related to software than to hardware.


</doc>
<doc id="56351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56351" title="Family Jewels">
Family Jewels

Family Jewels is a two disc compilation DVD by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It contains videos from the Bon Scott era to the Brian Johnson era. The compilation was released in 2005.




</doc>
<doc id="56353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56353" title="Category:Music videos and DVDs">
Category:Music videos and DVDs


</doc>
<doc id="56359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56359" title="Power transmission">
Power transmission

Power transmission is the movement of energy from its place of generation to a place where it can be used for work.

Power is defined formally as units of energy per unit time.
In SI units: 1 watt = 1 joule/s = 1 newton * metre/second (1W=1J/s=1N·m/s).

Since the development of technology, Transmission and storage systems have been of immense interest to technologists and technology users.

With widespread establishment of power grids, power transmission has came to be associated most often with electric power transmission. 

Electrical power transmission has replaced mechanical power transmission in all but the very shortest distances. From the start of the industrial revolution until the end of the 19th century mechanical power transmission was the norm. Factories were fitted with overhead driveshafts providing rotary power. Drivebelts would provide power to individual machines on the shop floor.

Mechanical power may be transmitted directly using a solid structure such as a driveshaft; transmission gears can adjust the amount of torque or force vs. speed in much the same way an electrical transformer adjusts voltage vs current.

Power (and energy) may be transmitted by physically transporting chemical or nuclear fuels. Possible artificial fuels include radioactive isotopes, wood alcohol, grain alcohol, methane, synthetic gas, cryogenic gas, hydrogen gas (H) and liquefied natural gas (LNG).


</doc>
<doc id="56361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56361" title="Ocean surface wave">
Ocean surface wave

Ocean surface waves are surface waves that occur in the upper layer of the ocean. They usually result from wind or geologic effects like earthquakes or vulcanicity and may travel thousands of miles before striking land. They range in size from small ripples to huge tsunamis. There is little actual forward motion of individual water particles in an unbroken wave, despite the large amount of energy and momentum it may carry forward.

The great majority of large breakers one sees on an ocean beach result from distant winds. Three factors influence the formation of "wind waves":


All of these factors work together to determine the size and shape of ocean waves. The greater each of the variables, the larger the waves. Waves are measured by:


Waves in a given area typically have a range of sizes. For weather reporting and for scientific analysis of wind wave statistics, their size over a period of time is usually expressed as "significant wave height." This figure represents the average height of the highest one-third of the waves in a given time period (usually twelve hours) or in a specific wave or storm system. Given the variability of wave size, the largest individual waves are likely to be twice the reported significant wave height for a particular day or storm.




</doc>
<doc id="56362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56362" title="Crest (physics)">
Crest (physics)

A crest is the point on a wave with the greatest positive value or upward displacement in a cycle. A trough is the opposite of a crest.

When the crest and the trough of two waves of equal magnitude and frequency intersect or collide when in phase with each other the result is called constructive interference and the magnitudes double (above and below the line), when 180° out of phase the result is destructive interference with each other the resulting wave is the undisturbed line that is in the middle of the diagram having zero amplitude.

In other words, the wave crest is called a peak.



</doc>
<doc id="56363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56363" title="Trough">
Trough

A trough is a box-like drinking vessel for farm animals. Other senses of the word refer to things that are lower than their surroundings, like a trough:


See also trow.


</doc>
<doc id="56368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56368" title="Surface wave">
Surface wave

In physics, a surface wave can refer to a mechanical wave that propagates along the interface between differing media, usually two fluids with different densities. A surface wave can also be an electromagnetic wave guided by a refractive index gradient. In radio transmission, a ground wave is a surface wave that propagates close to the surface of the Earth.








</doc>
<doc id="56369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56369" title="Nausea">
Nausea

Nausea is a general feeling of unease and discomfort in the stomach, often with the urge to vomit. The word "nausea" comes from the Latin word for seasickness.

Nausea is a symptom, rather than an illness or disease. The causes for it very often are not in the stomach itself, but somewhere else in the body. Nausea is often caused by a stomach virus. Nausea is usually harmless, in the short term. A good treatment for it can be not to take solid food (and to only drink non-alcoholic drinks, like water). Nausea can also occur during pregnancy, and is quite normal in that context. 


</doc>
<doc id="56370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56370" title="Anxiety">
Anxiety

Anxiety is an unpleasant emotional state. It can include fear. Very often, people with anxiety also feel worries. There can also be physical symptoms, like having a headache or an upset stomach.

Some people have a lot of anxiety that controls them. This can be treated by therapy and medicine.


</doc>
<doc id="56371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56371" title="Lumbar puncture">
Lumbar puncture

A lumbar puncture (often called spinal tap, by non-doctors) is a medical method to collect a sample of cerebrospinal fluid (fluid from the brain). This can be either done to analyse the sample, to find some hints to diseases. It can also be done to lower the pressure of the fluid inside the skull.


</doc>
<doc id="56374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56374" title="Wave power">
Wave power

Wave power means the feet of ocean surface waves and the capture of that energy to do useful work - including electricity generation, desalination, and the pumping of water (into reservoirs). 

Power from ocean surface wave motion might produce much more energy than tides. It has been tested that it is possible to produce energy from waves, particularly in Scotland in the UK. But the technology is not as well developed as wind power or solar power.



</doc>
<doc id="56375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56375" title="Port Royal">
Port Royal

Port Royal was a city in Jamaica. It was the focus of trade in Jamaica in the 17th century. It was known for its piracy, but also for the riches accumulated, and for the very bad moral values that could be found in the city. An earthquake in June of 1692 largely destroyed the city. Two thirds of the city sank into the Caribbean Sea. Today, the city is covered by at least 8 metres of water. The city is among the most important archaeological sites in the Ocean. Its role as a center for trade was taken over by Spanish Town, Jamaica, and later by Kingston.


</doc>
<doc id="56376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56376" title="Template:User be-1">
Template:User be-1


</doc>
<doc id="56377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56377" title="Template:User be-2">
Template:User be-2


</doc>
<doc id="56378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56378" title="Template:User be-3">
Template:User be-3


</doc>
<doc id="56379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56379" title="Template:User be-4">
Template:User be-4


</doc>
<doc id="56380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56380" title="Template:User be-N">
Template:User be-N


</doc>
<doc id="56381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56381" title="Wikipedia:Proposed very good articles">
Wikipedia:Proposed very good articles

Very good articles are the highest status of articles at Simple English Wikipedia. In order to become a very good article, there are certain criteria that the article must meet. These criteria can be found at . 

This page is to discuss articles to decide whether they meet the VGA criteria. When an article is posted here for discussion, it should have the tag placed on it. This will place the article in .

Articles which are accepted by the community as very good articles have their tag replaced with . They are also listed on and are placed in . Articles which are not accepted by the community as very good articles have their tag removed.

Articles that are below the very good article criteria can be nominated to be a good article at .

If you choose to participate in the discussion process for promoting articles, it is very important that you know and understand the . Discussing an article is a promise to the community that you have thoroughly read the criteria and the article in question. You should be prepared to fully explain the reasons for your comment. This process should not be taken lightly, and if there is concern that a user is not taking the process seriously and/or is commenting without reason, they may have their privilege to participate taken away.

In order to make sure the article you are proposing meets the required size, use . Please notice that the "text" size is important, not the "wikitext" size.

"To propose an article for Very Good article status, just add it to the top of the list using the code below. Proposals run for three weeks. After this time the article will be either promoted or not promoted depending on the consensus reached in the discussion. This is not a vote, so please do not use comments such as "Support" or "Oppose" etc." 

I have worked on this article for quite some time, and I think that it meats the Very Good Article criteria. The only issue may be the big ammount of red links (because there aren't any of the articles I linked too, on the Simple English Wikipedia), but that can be fixed. All the best -- () 15:27, 3 January 2012 (UTC)

I believe the article meets VGA criteria. The only issue I can see with the article is length, at around 4,600 characters. There is, however, a precedent that was set with the promotion of the sub-stub Tropical Depression Ten (2005) article: if everything is done right, and all criteria are met, then the article should get the gold star, so long as all information available to the reader is presented in the article. So thus, I present you with the eccentric and ill-tempered Oyster Burns. ( · ) 00:06, 31 December 2011 (UTC)



</noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="56384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56384" title="S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl">
S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl

S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl, previously known as S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Oblivion Lost, is a post-apocalyptic first-person shooter computer game by Ukrainian developer GSC Game World.

The game uses a software freature called the "X-Ray engine". It features an alternate reality theme, where the second nuclear disaster happens at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in the near future and makes strange changes happen to the area around it, which create a lot of mutated animals, plants, and change the laws of Physics. The game has a storyline that lets the player have a lot of freedom, and features gameplay features such as trading and two-way communication with NPCs. The game includes features of role-playing and economic games.

Some phrases used in the game ("The Zone", "Stalker") as well as the idea of the game, are borrowed from the popular science fiction book "Roadside Picnic" by Boris and Arkady Strugatsky and the 1979 film "Stalker", based on the book.

GSC Game World talked about the game's AI in January 2005. IGN said that the game, while similar to "Far Cry", will have more wildlife, and that the way animals actin the game is as important to them as the humans. The animals anger will vary with how hungry and tired they are, as well as other things. So, the game will have some idea of fight or flight to it.

In the game, the player is known as "The Marked One" who is a Stalker, a person who lives in the Zone and makes a living collecting "Artifacts" and selling them. The Zone has a lot of danger in it.

The type of game is a mix of a RPG and a FPS, though the player does not get attributes like Strength of Constitution, or get more powerful, which is different from a normal computer RPG. The role-playing part is mainly about normal RPG elements, such as storyline and the way other people in the game act with the player. But, the game does not let the player have a lot of choice when it comes to talking to characters in the game. Unlike RPGs such as "Knights of the Old Republic", the number of different conversations the player can have with NPCs in the game is quite small and does not change the way that the game will end for the player a lot.

The Zone is made up of a 30 km square area, that has wilderness, human camps, and a few heavily-guarded military bases. But, the game world is not one big world, but is a lot of smaller maps broken up by loading screens. Moving from one area of the Zone to another can only happen at certain passageways; a white fence border stops players from trying to cross the map in any other area. The game does not have vehicles that the player can drive. The player does have a fast sprint, but he or she cannot sprint without stopping, and the player can not fire weapons while sprinting

"S.T.A.L.K.E.R." uses "realistic" bullet physics, that is, the way that the bullets move is like how a bullet would move in real life. The bullet physics are similar to tactical shooters such as "Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter" or "Call of Duty 2". Bullets are affected by gravity, and weapons are highly inaccurate when fired "from the hip". To be sure of hitting the enemy at long range, players must aim using the iron sights on their guns. Also, bullets do "realistic" damage, and the player can die after only being shot a few times (but to make up for this, later in the game the player can get different armor suits that increase the amount the player can be shot before dying).

"Artifacts" are the product of 'anomalies', which occur randomly throughout the game. Anomalies are normally a few metres across, these areas are dangerous to enter and can instantly kill the player or cause serious injury. They can be seen by looking for swirling leaves, heat waves, wind moving about, and electricity. An anomaly will be in the game for about one week in game time, and once they have disappeared the player is able to collect the artifacts left behind, which can be traded for supplies, or worn to enhance some player abilities, with normally some bad side effects; for example, there is an artifact in the game that can make bullets less likely to hit the player, but will slowly give the player radiation sickness, which will eventually kill the character being played.

The local animals and plants were altered a lot by the years of radiation. They have become more dangerous, and have developed natural defenses to survive the harsh world. There are also a lot of people that were mutated by the radiation from the second explosion in the power plant.

The stalkers find it difficult to hunt for artifacts because the Ukrainian Military is in the area, trying to stop the zone getting bigger, and help control the mutant. The Military is an enemy of anyone who is not Military, and will work as a big team to attack anyone they see using heavy force and the use of Mi-35 Hind gunships, which are attack helicopters.

A few other groups work in the zone, and are neutral or an enemy based on certain events. Two groups are important: "Freedom" and "Duty" as they are the only two groups that the player can decide if they want to be friendly towards or not. Neither Faction will attack the player at first, and both will offer missions to the player. Freedom and Duty are at war with one another, and although th player can keep frienship with both of them at first, the player will end up having to choose a side. The player cannot join either faction, no matter how friendly the player becomes towards them, as the player's faction status in the player's P.D.A. will tell the player, the player is always a loner in this game. There are several other groups, these are almost all enemies for the player. The scientists are different though, because the player can be friends by saving one of them from a mercenary attack later in the game.

The player also works with other NPCs in the Zone, and can help Stalker factions and receive missions, which further the storyline. Players are able to explore over 30 square km of the Zone, including the ghost town of Pripyat and the empty Chernobyl Nuclear Plant, while meeting animals and plants mutated by radiation as well as other Stalkers and NPCs.

The game uses uses GSC Gameworld's proprietary ALife artificial intelligence engine. ALife supports more than one thousand characters living in the Zone.

The NPCs act as if they really are alive, having different states, such as task accomplishment, combat, rest, feeding and sleep. The monsters in the game also act in this way. These monsters will move in large groups. The non-scripted way the characters work means that there are an unlimited number of random quests. For example, rescuing Stalkers from danger, killing Stalker renegades, protecting or attacking Stalker camps or searching for treasure. The AI characters travel around the entire zone as they want.

Numerous different ways of playing the game can be used, such as using stealth and sniping. The NPCs will react in a different way to each of them.

A weather system works in various parts of the landscape and let the weather act as if it is real, letting the game have weather such as sunshine, storms and showers. The weapons available, the way the AI acts, game tactics and ranking systems will depend on the weather.

Multiplayer, like many other new games, will work over both LAN and the Internet with up to 32 players. Currently the three game modes are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Artifact hunt. The game will also use a ranking system.

Early in the development of the game it was named "Oblivion Lost", and the game was planned to have more of a futuristic theme before the idea was reworked to set the game in Chernobyl, being a nearby location to the game's Kiev based development team. Eventually, this was reflected in the change of the game's subtitle to "Shadow of Chernobyl". Screenshots and trailers of this early version can be found on various web sites, depicting the robots and spacecraft originally planned for the game.

While the source of the Zone may still turn out to have extraterrestrial connections (like in "Roadside Picnic", where the Zone is thought to have been an absent-minded, accidental creation of a careless, vastly superior alien race), there is no indication that such more direct manifestations will return.

The game was first announced in November 2001 and has had its release date, originally in 2003, pushed back several times. Meanwhile hundreds of screenshots of the game have been released, as well as dozen preview video clips, accompanied by other forms of promotion by GSC, such as inviting fans to their offices in Kiev to play the current build of the game. However due to the delays some considered "S.T.A.L.K.E.R." to be vaporware, like the game "Duke Nukem Forever", or fear that the game may become a new "Daikatana".

In their E3 Awards for 2005, IGN gave "S.T.A.L.K.E.R."<nowiki>'</nowiki>s absence the award of "Biggest PC Surprise"; the runners-up were the absence of "Fallout 3" from the show, and the lack of a new announcement from Blizzard Entertainment.

In February 2005, THQ expressed desire to see the game released toward the end of its 2006 fiscal year (March 31 2006) but maintained that no release date had been set. In October, 2005, THQ confirmed that "S.T.A.L.K.E.R." will not be out "until the second half of THQ's 2007 fiscal year - October 2006 at the earliest." In February of 2006, THQ revised this possible release window, saying the game would not be in stores until the first quarter of 2007.

In an interview at the Russian Gameland Awards, PR Manager Oleg Yavorsky indicated that release was planned for September 2006.

In 2006, the game came 9th in "Wired"'s Vaporware '06 award.

THQ ran a competition in January 2007 offering the lucky winners the chance to play the beta version of S.T.A.L.K.E.R, in a 24 hour marathon session. The event, scheduled to take place on the January 24 2007, was subsequently changed to a 12 hour session days before it was supposed to occur.

On the morning of the event, the 'lucky' winners were met at the venue by the THQ staff that had organized the event, who were embarrassed to report that they had been unable to get any copies of the game. In late February GSC managed to release a public beta. Multiplayer demo was released to public on March 15 2007.

On March 2 2007, it was announced that the game had gone gold.

So far, publications which have reviewed the title have been largely positive, noting the immersive, atmospheric setting and open-ended, rewarding gameplay. Some aspects of the game, such as the translation of printed text, the absence of subtitles for spoken Russian, and general game performance, have received negative criticism. It has also been noted that there are numerous sporadic bugs which can affect gameplay, although most of these are considered minor. However, in the newly released patch 1.0001 it is claimed that many bugs and glitches were fixed. Another common criticism is the fact that less than half of the map is actually accessible by the player.

Publications which have submitted reviews include IGN U.S. (8.2/10), IGN Australia (8.9/10), Gamespot (8.5/10), Australian PC User 95% and "PC Gamer" (87%). Ukraine's own "Gameplay" magazine awarded it 4.5 out of 5. UK based website Mansized scored the game 4/5.

Several years after the Chernobyl disaster, the Zone was occupied and "repurposed" by several research projects run by the Soviet government. Facilities were constructed or expanded under the abandoned military bases and civilian factories and industrial sites in the area, and a large lab was established directly beneath Reactor 4 and its Sarcophagus. These experiments were focused primarily on various aspects of the mind, including creating and enhancing ESP in humans, psychotronic weapons, and an experiment intended to create a human hive mind: the "Collective Consciousness," or "C-Consciousness," project.

Shortly after C-Consciousness was successfully created by the fusion of seven human minds through a computer interface, the Soviet Union collapsed. In the years that followed, some of the research labs were abandoned, and the C-Consciousness entity took greater control over the few facilities that remained in full operation. With its enhanced cognitive abilities, C-Consciousness was able to perceive and eventually to directly alter the "noosphere" (the collective "environment" of all thought, just as the "biosphere" refers to the sum total of all biological matter and its myriad interactions).

The intention of C-Consciousness was subtle mind control on a global scale. It believed that by manipulating the noosphere that the more negative and destructive aspects of human consciousness, cognition, and emotion could be eliminated to create world peace and harmony. Unfortunately, in 2006 C-Consciousness's first major attempt to manipulate the Noosphere resulted in disaster. There was a massive explosion of both psychic and physical force, and the noosphere in the vicinity of the C-Consciousness lab was twisted and distorted. In much the same way that the biosphere can permanently alter the physical landscape of the earth, so manipulation of the noosphere can distort all manner of physical reality: mind over matter on a massive scale.

This distortion of the noosphere powered by C-Consciousness and the machinery it was connected to created the anomalies and many of the mutants that inhabit the Zone in 2012. Desperate to correct its mistake and in order to shield itself from outside interference, especially the meddlesome "Stalkers" beginning to appear in the Zone, the C-Consciousness created an "Alien Monolith" in the center of the gutted Reactor 4, and used its ability to affect the minds of normal humans to create the "Monolith" cult, a group of heavily armed zealots whose tenets included worship of the Monolith and the prevention of "heretics" from approaching the remains of Chernobyl. They converted the Steel Yard radar facility near Pripyat into a powerful "Brain Scorcher" that would blast the mind of any unprotected human who approached too close, turning them into mindlessly aggressive zombies (while allowing C-Consciousness to select some individuals to brainwash into new members of Monolith). Finally, they used some of their agents (former Stalkers spread throughout the Zone) to disseminate stories of a "Wish Granter" at the heart of Chernobyl, ensuring that anyone who did manage to evade both the Monolith faction and the Brain Scorcher would be drawn to the Monolith and disposed of, rather than discovering the existence of the C-Consciousness lab.

This lasted for several years, but the continued efforts of C-Consciousness were unable to repair the damage they had done to the Zone. In fact, the damage appeared to be getting worse, with "Blowouts" deepening the distortion of the noosphere around the Zone at irregular intervals. Still, the C-Consciousness entity persisted in its experiments, behind the shields of the Monolith and the Wish Granter myth, the Monolith faction's patrols, the Brain Scorcher, and the dangers of the Zone itself. Occasionally, though, special circumstances would require an agent, a human able to do what was needed to preserve the Zone's secrets without revealing the existence of the C-Consciousness project. In these cases, Stalkers who were tough and resourceful enough to make it to or past the Brain Scorcher would be captured, brainwashed, and sent back into the outer areas of the zone on one of the "Death Trucks." These agents were marked with the tattoo "S.T.A.L.K.E.R." This is where Strelok, the main character, enters the story.

Strelok and his allies, Ghost, Fang, and Doc, were a group of Stalkers who had a particular interest in what exactly lay at the center of The Zone. At some point a few weeks before the start of the game, they managed to slip past the Brain Scorcher and all the way to the Nuclear Power Plant, finding the Monolith, an electronically locked vault door beneath the Monolith chamber (which leads to C-Consciousness), and documents hinting at the fact that the giant glowing Monolith was in fact a deliberate trap for anyone attempting to discover the secrets of the Zone. Unfortunately, they were forced to retreat, and their next attempt to penetrate into the heart of the Zone met with disaster. They had managed to obtain an electronic lockpick that would open the vault door, but this time the Monolith was ready for them and they were forced to retreat again, and their escape was further complicated by a blowout. Strelok was caught in the blowout and rendered unconscious with a severe case of amnesia. This made for a perfect subject for the conditioning process for a human agent of the C-Consciousness entity. Ghost and Fang escaped, but Fang was seriously wounded and died before the pair made it out of Pripyat, with Ghost moving on to find "safer" work in the outer regions of the Zone.

By this point, Strelok had become a serious threat to the security and secrecy of the C-Consciousness lab and the entity contained there, and it was decided that Strelok must be killed. However, due to unknown factors, C-Consciousness made a mistake: not realizing the identity of the man who had been caught in the blowout, they attempted to program him to kill Strelok, when in fact the man was Strelok. A second accident, the chance destruction of the Death Truck meant to carry this new agent back to the outer Zone, resulted in a loss of C-Consciousness control over him. Strelok was a free agent once again, though confused, amnesiac, and stripped of his possessions. The mission to kill himself led Strelok to retrace his steps through the past few weeks, tracking down his old associates and, over time, putting back together the evidence that had led him to become a danger to C-Consciousness in the first place. With the help of Doc to reveal his identity and to point him in the direction of a backup cache of documentation and another electronic lock pick, Strelok returned to Chernobyl and penetrated to the chamber under the "Monolith," destroying the projection device that created the illusion.

C-Consciousness, having no other option, confronted him to offer an explanation of their actions, the nature of the Zone, and a choice: to join them, bolster their numbers, help them repair the harm they had caused and shepherd humanity's consciousness towards peace, or to face a final confrontation with the remaining forces of the Monolith Faction in an attempt to reach the heart of the real C-Consciousness Lab, in order to put a stop to their manipulations and machinations.



</doc>
<doc id="56388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56388" title="List of bridges in the United States">
List of bridges in the United States

The list of bridges in the United States is a link page for some bridges in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="56389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56389" title="Osborne's bull">
Osborne's bull

Osborne's bull was created as an advertisement for a sherry in 1956. Many people see it as the unofficial image of Spain. The bull is seen in semi-profile. The bulls used today are about 14 metres high, and are made out of about 70 plates of iron.


</doc>
<doc id="56399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56399" title="Desalination">
Desalination

Desalination means any process that removes the excess salt and other minerals from water in order to obtain fresh water suitable for animal consumption or irrigation.

If almost all of the salt is removed for human consumption, sometimes the process produces table salt as a by-product. 

Desalination of brackish water is done in the United States in order to meet treaty obligations for river water entering Mexico. Several Middle Eastern countries have energy reserves so great that they use desalinated water for agriculture. Saudi Arabia's desalination plants account for about 24% of total world capacity. The world's largest desalination plant is the "Jebel Ali" Desalination Plant (Phase 2) in UAE. It uses multi-stage flash distillation, dual-purpose and it is capable of producing 300 million cubic meters of water per year.


The traditional process used in these operations is vacuum distillation — essentially the boiling of water at less than atmospheric pressure, and thus a much lower temperature than normal. Due to the reduced temperature, energy is saved.


</doc>
<doc id="56400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56400" title="Solar energy">
Solar energy

Solar energy is energy that is present in sunlight. It has been used for thousands of years in many different ways by people all over the world. As well as its traditional human uses in heating, cooking, and drying, it is used today to make electricity where other power supplies are absent, such as in remote places and in space. It is becoming cheaper to make electricity from solar energy and in many situations it is now competitive with energy from coal or oil. 

Solar energy is used today in a number of ways:

After passing through the Earth's atmosphere, most of the Sun's energy is in the form of visible light and infrared light radiation. Plants convert the energy in sunlight into chemical energy (sugars and starches) through the process of photosynthesis. Humans regularly use this store of energy in various ways, as when they burn wood or fossil fuels, or when simply eating plants, fish and animals.

Solar radiation reaches the Earth's upper Earth's atmosphere with the power of 1366 watts per square meter (W/m). Since the Earth is round, the surface nearer its poles is angled away from the sun and receives much less solar energy than the surface nearer the equator. 

At present, solar cell panels convert, at best, about 15% of sunlight hitting them into electricity. 

The dark disks in the third diagram on the right are imaginary examples of the amount of land that, if covered with 8% efficient solar panels, would produce slightly more energy in the form of electricity than the world needed in 2003.
Many technologies have been developed to make use of solar radiation. Some of these technologies make direct use of the solar energy (e.g. to provide light, heat, etc.), while others produce electricity.

Solar power plants strive to convert sunlight into electricity, either directly using photovoltaics (PV), or indirectly using "concentrated solar power" (CSP). Concentrated solar power systems use lenses or mirrors and tracking systems to focus a large area of sunlight into a small beam. Photovoltaics converts light into electric current using the photoelectric effect.

 Solar cooking uses the sun as the source of energy instead of standard cooking fuels such as charcoal, coal or gas. Solar cookers are an inexpensive and environmentally sound alternative to traditional ovens. They are becoming widely used in areas of the developing world where deforestation is an issue, financial resources to purchase fuel are limited, and where open flames would pose a serious risk to people and the environment.

 The sun may be used to heat water instead of electricity or gas. There are two basic types of active solar heating systems based on the type of fluid — either liquid or air — that is heated in the solar energy collectors. (The collector is the device in which a fluid is heated by the sun.)

Liquid-based systems heat water or an antifreeze solution in a "hydronic" collector, whereas air-based systems heat air in an "air collector." Both air and liquid systems can supplement forced air systems.

Solar cells can be used to generate electricity from sunlight. It is a device that converts light energy into electrical energy. Sometimes the term "solar cell" is reserved for devices intended specifically to capture energy from sunlight, while the term "photovoltaic cell" is used when the light source is unspecified.

Solar cells have many applications. They have long been used in situations where electrical power from the grid is unavailable, such as in remote area power systems, Earth-orbiting satellites and space probes, consumer systems, e.g. handheld calculators or wrist watches, remote radiotelephones and water pumping applications.




</doc>
<doc id="56401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56401" title="Photovoltaics">
Photovoltaics

Photovoltaics (PVs) are arrays of cells containing a solar photovoltaic material that converts solar radiation into direct current electricity. Due to the growing demand for renewable energy sources, the manufacturing of solar cells and photovoltaic arrays has advanced considerably in recent years.

Solar photovoltaics is growing rapidly, from a small base, to a total global capacity of 40,000 MW at the end of 2010. More than 100 countries use solar PV. Installations may be ground-mounted (and sometimes integrated with farming and grazing) or built into the roof or walls of a building.

As of December 2010, the largest photovoltaic (PV) power plants in the world are the Sarnia Photovoltaic Power Plant (Canada, 97 MW), Montalto di Castro Photovoltaic Power Station (Italy, 84.2 MW), Finsterwalde Solar Park (Germany, 80.7 MW), Rovigo Photovoltaic Power Plant (Italy, 70 MW), Olmedilla Photovoltaic Park (Spain, 60 MW), the Strasskirchen Solar Park (Germany, 54 MW), and the Lieberose Photovoltaic Park (Germany, 53 MW). Larger power stations are under construction, some proposed will have a capacity of 150 MW or more.


</doc>
<doc id="56402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56402" title="Solar cell">
Solar cell

A solar cell or photovoltaic cell is a device that converts light energy into electrical energy. Sometimes the term "solar cell" is reserved for devices intended specifically to capture energy from sunlight, while the term "photovoltaic cell" is used when the light source is unspecified. The device needs to fulfill only two functions: photogeneration of charge carriers (electrons and holes) in a light-absorbing material, and separation of the charge carriers to a conductive contact that will transmit the electricity. This conversion is called the "photovoltaic effect", and the field related to solar cells is known as photovoltaics.

Solar cells have many applications. They have long been used in situations where electrical power from the grid is unavailable, such as in remote area power systems, Earth-orbiting satellites and space probes, consumer systems, e.g. handheld calculators or wrist watches, remote radiotelephones and water pumping applications. More recently, they are starting to be used in assemblies of solar modules connected to the electricity grid through an inverter, often in combination with a net metering arrangement. 

Solar cells are regarded as one of the key technologies towards a sustainable energy supply.

The first generation photovoltaic, consists of a large-area, single layer p-n junction diode, which is capable of generating usable electrical energy from light sources with the wavelengths of sunlight. These cells are typically made using a silicon wafer. First generation photovoltaic cells (also known as silicon wafer-based solar cells) are the dominant technology in the commercial production of solar cells, accounting for more than 86% of the solar cell market.

The second generation of photovoltaic materials is based on the use of thin-film deposits of semiconductors. These devices were initially designed to be high-efficiency, multiple junction photovoltaic cells. Later, the advantage of using a thin-film of material was noted, reducing the mass of material required for cell design. This contributed to a prediction of greatly reduced costs for thin film solar cells. Currently (2007) there are different technologies/semiconductor materials under investigation or in mass production, such as amorphous silicon, poly-crystalline silicon, micro-crystalline silicon, cadmium telluride, copper indium selenide/sulfide. Typically, the efficiencies of thin-film solar cells are lower compared with silicon (wafer-based) solar cells, but manufacturing costs are also lower, so that a lower price in terms of $/watt of electrical output can be achieved. Another advantage of the reduced mass is that less support is needed when placing panels on rooftops and it allows fitting panels on light materials or flexible materials, even textiles.

Third generation photovoltaics are very different from the other two, broadly defined as semiconductor devices which do not rely on a traditional p-n junction to separate photogenerated charge carriers. These new devices include photoelectrochemical cells, Polymer solar cells, and nanocrystal solar cells.

Companies working on third generation photovoltaics include "Xsunx, Konarka Technologies, Inc.", "Nanosolar" and "Nanosys". Research is also being done in this area by the USA's "National Renewable Energy Laboratory" (http://www.nrel.gov/).







</doc>
<doc id="56404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56404" title="Alternating current">
Alternating current

An alternating current (AC) is an electric current of which magnitude and direction vary, unlike direct current, whose direction remains constant. 

The usual waveform of an AC power circuit is a sine wave, because this leads to the most efficient transmission of energy. However, in certain applications different waveforms are used, such as triangular or square waves.

When one speaks of alternating current one mostly refers to the form in which electricity is delivered to businesses and residences. But audio and radio signals carried on electrical wire are also examples of alternating current. In these applications, an important goal is often the recovery of information encoded (or modulated) onto the AC signal.

William Stanley, Jr. designed one of the first practical devices to transfer AC power efficiently between isolated circuits. Using pairs of coils wound on a common iron core, his design, called an induction coil, was an early precursor of the modern transformer. The system used today was devised in the late nineteenth century, largely by Nikola Tesla. Contributions were also made by George Westinghouse, Lucien Gaulard, John Dixon Gibbs,Wilhelm Siemens and Oliver Shallenger. AC systems overcame the limitations of the direct current system used by Thomas Edison to distribute electricity efficiently over long distances. 

The first modern commercial power plant that used three-phase alternating current was at the Mill Creek hydroelectric plant near Redlands, California in 1893. Its designer was Almirian Decker, a brilliant young engineer. Decker's innovative design incorporated 10,000 volt three phase transmission and established the standards for the complete system of generation, transmission and motors used today. 





</doc>
<doc id="56405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56405" title="Direct current">
Direct current

Direct current (DC or ""continuous current"") is the flow of electricity in a single direction, from the positive to the negative terminals (potential, poles).

The direct current always flow in the same direction, distinguishing it from the alternating current (AC). Direct current used to be called "Galvanic current".
Batteries is one of the main sources of direct current (DC), but many other sources also exist such as bridge rectifiers in power supply, solar panels, etc.

Typically the current goes through a conductor such as a wire, but it can also go through semiconductors, insulators, or even through a vacuum as in electron or ion beams.

The first commercial electric power transmission was developed by Thomas Edison in the late nineteenth century using direct current. Today nearly all electric power distribution uses alternating current because of the advantages with transformers and transmission. For applications requiring direct current, the alternating current is typically distributed to a substation and then converted to direct current.

Note: Long after the usage of direct current had been established, physicists realized that the current was made of negative electric charges, the electrons, and that the actual flow was from the negative to the positive pole (and so-called "holes" flow in the opposite direction), but by convention, the usage of the term was never changed.




</doc>
<doc id="56406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56406" title="White hole">
White hole

In astrophysics, a white hole is the opposite of a black hole. Where a black hole attracts and sucks in any nearby matter, a white hole does the opposite and pushes nearby matter away. A theory about white holes is that they act as an exit for matter sucked in by a black hole, suggesting that black holes are a type of teleporter (something that can transport objects instantly without travelling through space). The black and white holes are connected by a wormhole (see diagram).



</doc>
<doc id="56407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56407" title="Snowmobile">
Snowmobile

A snowmobile is a motorized vehicle used for travelling over snow. It is like a car, only instead of wheels, it has treads. Some snowmobiles have skis in the front for steering. 

Adding snowmobile studs to the tread decreases the time and distance it takes to stop a snowmobile. Once you make a decision to stop a snowmobile, the distance it will take to stop will be a combination of the speed of the machine, weight of the machine and the available friction and or the mechanical damping (which will equal the effective drag factor) between the snowmobile and the surface on which it is trying to stop. If the surface is icy or hard-packed, the mechanical damping portion of the effective drag factor is decreased, leaving you with only the friction provided by the tread to stop.

Snowmobile studs made from steel or stainless steel with carbide tips are installed in the tread. The studs are designed for specific terrains in varying lengths, shapes and materials. The studs control acceleration, deceleration and maneuverability. The correct amount and type of stud installed in an effective pattern will produce the best traction results.


</doc>
<doc id="56413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56413" title="Remo Four">
Remo Four

The Remo Four were a rock band from Liverpool, England, from the late 1950s and early 1960s, at the same time the Beatles were starting their musical careers.

While the Beatles gained experience performing in Hamburg, Germany, the Remo Four played at American Air Force bases in France. Members of the two bands were friends, and often played at the same places back in Liverpool, or would go to watch each other perform.

After the Beatles became famous under Brian Epstein's management, Epstein signed up the Remo Four also. He worked hard to promote the band, but they never achieved massive success as the Beatles had. Epstein paired the Remo Four with a singer he also managed, called Tommy Quickly. They made a series of singles together, but none became hits. Quickly retired from music, and the Remo Four went on to work with other singers, including Billy J. Kramer. They also released an album, titled "Smile", on a German record label.

George Harrison was invited to record a movie late in 1967. Instead of working with the Beatles, he invited the Remo Four to work with him. The movie, "Wonderwall", got little exposure, but the soundtrack album, "Wonderwall Music", became a minor hit the next year.


</doc>
<doc id="56414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56414" title="Category:Firefighting">
Category:Firefighting


</doc>
<doc id="56415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56415" title="Magnitude (mathematics)">
Magnitude (mathematics)

The magnitude of a mathematical object is its size: a property by which it can be larger or smaller than other objects of the same kind.

In mathematical language one would say: It is an ordering of the class of objects to which it belongs.

The Ancient Greeks between several types of magnitude, including:

They had proven that the first two could not be the same, or even isomorphic systems of magnitude. They did not consider negative magnitudes to be meaningful, and "magnitude" is still chiefly used in contexts in which zero is either the lowest size or less than all possible sizes. 

The magnitude of a real number is usually called the absolute value or modulus. It is written | "x" |, and is defined by:

This gives the number's distance from zero on the real number line. For example, the modulus of −5 is 5.

A magnitude is never negative. When comparing magnitudes, it is often helpful to use a logarithmic scale. Real-world examples include the loudness of a sound (decibel), the brightness of a star, or the Richter scale of earthquake intensity.

To put it another way, often it is not meaningful to simply add and subtract magnitudes.


</doc>
<doc id="56416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56416" title="Fraction (mathematics)">
Fraction (mathematics)

A fraction is a number that shows how many equal parts there are. When we write fractions, we show one number with a line above another number, for example, formula_1 or or 1/4. The top number tells us how many parts there are, the second number tells us the total number of parts.


A fraction is a mathematical expression relating two quantities or numbers, one divided by the other. The numbers may be whole numbers (or integers) – this is a rational number. For example, formula_5 is a fraction. They can also be polynomials – this is a rational function.

Mathematically, a fraction is a quotient of numbers, representing the number's value when the numerator is divided by the denominator (lower number). Thus formula_5 means one divided by two, or, in decimals, 0.5.

To find formula_5 of formula_5, the denominators are multiplied. That means: denominator 2 multiplied by 2 equals 4 or: formula_5 x formula_5 = formula_1 or: 0.5 x 0.5 = 0.25.

To find formula_5 "divided by" formula_5, multiply formula_5 by the reciprocal of formula_5, which is 2. That answer is 1.



</doc>
<doc id="56417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56417" title="Template:Fraction/doc">
Template:Fraction/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
This simple template makes a pretty fraction, such as or .

It's pretty simple, just type:
where the first argument is the numerator (or upper number), and the second argument is the denominator.

The first two examples above were typed as <nowiki></nowiki>, and <nowiki></nowiki>.
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="56418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56418" title="Template:Fraction">
Template:Fraction


</doc>
<doc id="56419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56419" title="Wikipedia:Transclusion">
Wikipedia:Transclusion

Transclusion is when the contents of one page or document is included within another. In the Wikipedian context, it is the use of the template functionality of MediaWiki to include the same content in multiple documents without having to edit those documents separately.

This very page uses template transclusion. The section above entitled ""How transclusion works"" is actually transcluded from the page . This is done using the MediaWiki markup <nowiki></nowiki> to include it.





</doc>
<doc id="56420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56420" title="Wikipedia:Transclusion/How Transclusion Works">
Wikipedia:Transclusion/How Transclusion Works

To transclude any source page (within a single MediaWiki project, such as simple:Wikipedia) within another target page, include the following code: 

codice_1

Whenever the target page A with this code is rendered, the engine will include "in that place" not the code itself, but the entire content of the source page B, SOMEPAGE. 

This would be a pretty neat trick if it only meant that you didn't have to copy-and-paste from one page to another. For example, you might decide to copy a welcome message to every newcomer's Talk page; you could do this with transclusion (though it might not be the best thing to do!). 

But transclusion creates a "live" link between the "template" page and the target page where it appears. When the template is edited, all the other pages change, too.

For example, you "might" decide to create a (template) page with your mailing address and include that template on not only your page, but all your friends' pages, too. When you move your television and couch to another apartment, you will "change" your address template, and automatically, that "new information" will appear on all your friends' pages.


</doc>
<doc id="56421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56421" title="Template:Divstylenone">
Template:Divstylenone

border: 1px hidden; margin: 0.5em; padding: 0.5em;

</doc>
<doc id="56423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56423" title="Buckethead">
Buckethead

Brian Patrick Carroll, better known as Buckethead, is an American musician and songwriter. As of 2009 he has released 28 solo albums. He has performed on over 50 more albums by other music artists. His music spans many different styles and genres.

When performing onstage Buckethead wears a white KFC bucket over his head and an expressionless plain white costume mask.

Although he can play many different types of musical instruments, Buckethead is best known for his guitar playing. He has been voted as a top guitarist in many magazines dedicated to the topic of guitar playing.

Buckethead records and performs onstage as a solo artist most of the time. He has also worked with a wide variety musicians including: Bill Laswell, Bootsy Collins, Bernie Worrell, Iggy Pop, Les Claypool, Serj Tankian, Mike Patton and Viggo Mortensen. Buckethead was a member of Guns N' Roses from 2000 to 2004.

Buckethead has created music for films such as: "Saw II", "Ghosts of Mars", "Beverly Hills Ninja" and "Last Action Hero".


</doc>
<doc id="56427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56427" title="Quotient">
Quotient

In mathematics, a quotient is the end result of a division problem. For example, in the problem 6 ÷ 3, the quotient would be 2. Then 6 would be called the dividend, and 3 the divisor. The quotient can also be expressed as the number of times the divisor divides into the dividend.

A quotient can also mean just the integral part of the result of dividing two integers. For example, the quotient of 13 ÷ 5 would be 2 while the remainder would be 3.

Quotients also come up in certain tests, like the IQ test, which stands for intelligence quotient. In this case, your quotient is basically your score. In recent decades, as people begin to emphasize full personal development, other similar quotients appeared. 


</doc>
<doc id="56428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56428" title="Norman language">
Norman language

Norman is a language spoken in Normandy. It is a Romance language (a language which comes from Latin) closely related to French. After the Norman Conquest, Norman changed the English language a lot.

Forms of the Norman are still used in the Channel Islands,

No one now uses Sercquiais or Auregnais as there first language, but Jerrais and Guernésiais are still used.


</doc>
<doc id="56429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56429" title="Division (mathematics)">
Division (mathematics)

In mathematics, the word "division" means the operation which is the opposite of multiplication. The symbol for division can be a slash, a line, or the division sign (formula_1), as in:
Each, of those three, means "6 divided by 3" giving 2 as the answer. The first number is the dividend (6), and the second number is the divisor (3). The result (or answer) is the quotient. Whole numbers, any left-over amount is called the "remainder" (such as 14/4 gives 3 with the remainer as 2, as the number , same as or 3.5).

The numbers can be very big, such as with two hundred: 200/5 = 40, or with 7 billion:  7,000,000,000 / 1000 = 7,000,000 (equals 7 million).

If "c" times "b" equals "a", written as:
where "b" is not zero, then "a" divided by "b" equals "c", written as:
For instance, 
since

In the above expression, "a" is called the dividend, "b" the divisor and "c" the quotient.

Division by zero
...is not defined.

Division is most often shown by placing the "dividend" over the "divisor" with a horizontal line, also called a vinculum, between them. For example, "a" divided by "b" is written
This can be read out loud as "a divided by b" or "a over b". A way to express division all on one line is to write the "dividend", then a slash, then the "divisor", like this:
This is the usual way to specify division in most computer programming languages since it can easily be typed as a simple sequence of characters.

A typographical variation which is halfway between these two forms uses a slash but elevates the dividend, and lowers the divisor:

Any of these forms can be used to display a fraction. A fraction is a division expression where both dividend and divisor are integers (although typically called the "numerator" and "denominator"). A fraction is an accepted way of writing numbers. It is not always expected that the result of the division is written in decimals.

A less common way to show division is to use the obelus (or division sign) in this manner:

But in elementary arithmetic this form is used rather often. The obelus is also used alone to represent the division operation itself, as for instance as a label on a key of a calculator.

In some non-English-speaking cultures, ""a" divided by "b"" is written "a" : "b". However, in English usage the colon is restricted to expressing the related concept of ratios (with "a":"b" said as ""a" is to "b"").




</doc>
<doc id="56430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56430" title="Division (disambiguation)">
Division (disambiguation)

Division could mean:

Processes:

Units/ Entities:

Music:

Miscellaneous:


</doc>
<doc id="56432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56432" title="Divisor">
Divisor

In mathematics, a divisor of an integer "n", also called a factor of "n", is an integer which evenly divides "n" without leaving a remainder. Any number is always evenly divisible by 1 and itself, which are two of the divisors. A prime number has no other divisors.

Finding one or more factors of a given number is called factorization.

For example, 7 is a divisor of 42 because 42/7 = 6. We also say 42 is divisible by 7 or 42 is a multiple of 7 or 7 divides 42 or 7 is a factor of 42 and we usually write 7 | 42. For example, the positive divisors of 42 are 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 14, 21, 42.

In general, we say "m"|"n" (read: "m" divides "n") for non-zero integers "m" and "n" iff there exists an integer "k" such that "n" = "km". Thus, divisors can be negative as well as positive, although often we restrict our attention to positive divisors. (For example, there are six divisors of four, 1, 2, 4, -1, -2, -4, but one would usually mention only the positive ones, 1, 2, and 4.) 

1 and −1 divide (are divisors of) every integer, every integer is a divisor of itself, and every integer is a divisor of 0, except by convention 0 itself (see also division by zero). Numbers divisible by 2 are called even and numbers not divisible by 2 are called odd.

A divisor of "n" that is not 1, −1, "n" or −"n" is known as a non-trivial divisor; numbers with non-trivial divisors are known as composite numbers, while prime numbers have no non-trivial divisors.

The name comes from the arithmetic operation of division: if "a"/"b" = "c" then "a" is the dividend, "b" the divisor, and "c" the quotient.

There are properties which allow one to recognize certain divisors of a number from the number's digits. Those properties can be used as "math tricks" to quickly spot some divisors of a number.

For example, if the last digit is even (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8), then 2 is a divisor. If the last digit is 0 or 5, then 5 is a divisor. If the digits add up to a multiple of 3, then 3 is a divisor. For the number 340, ending in "0" then both 2 and 5 are divisors, plus 2×5 = 10 is also a divisor. Dividing by 10, 340/10 = 34, as finally 2×17. Combining all the smaller numbers, the 12 divisors of 340 are:
Note that any number is always evenly divisible by 1 and itself.



</doc>
<doc id="56433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56433" title="Remainder">
Remainder

In arithmetic, the result of the division of two integers usually cannot be expressed with an integer quotient, unless a remainder —an amount "left over"— is also accepted.

If "a" and "d" are natural numbers, with "d" non-zero, it can be proved that there exist unique integers "q" and "r", such that "a" = "qd" + "r" and 0 ≤ "r" < "d". The number "q" is called the "quotient", while "r" is called the "remainder".


If "a" and "d" are integers, with "d" non-zero, then a remainder is an integer "r" such that "a" = "qd" + "r" for some integer "q", and with 0 ≤ |"r"| < |"d"|.

When defined this way, there are two possible remainders. For example, the division of −42 by −5 can be expressed as either

or

So the remainder is then either 3 or −2.

This ambiguity in the value of the remainder is not very serious; in the case above, the negative remainder is obtained from the positive one just by subtracting 5, which is "d". This holds in general. When dividing by "d", if the positive remainder is "r", and the negative one is "r", then

When "a" and "d" are real numbers, with "d" non-zero, "a" can be divided by "d" without remainder, with the quotient being another real number. If the quotient is constrained to being an integer however, the concept of remainder is still necessary. It can be proved that there exists a unique integer quotient "q" and a unique real remainder "r" such that "a"="qd"+"r" with 0≤"r" < |"d"|. As in the case of division of integers, the remainder could be required to be negative, that is, -|"d"| < "r" ≤ 0. 

Extending the definition of remainder for real numbers as described above is not of theoretical importance in mathematics; however, many programming languages implement this definition — see modulo operation.



</doc>
<doc id="56434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56434" title="Remainder (disambiguation)">
Remainder (disambiguation)

Remainder is the amount "left over" when dividing two integers.

Remainder could also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="56437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56437" title="List of 20th Century Fox movies">
List of 20th Century Fox movies

This is a list of films produced and/or distributed by the U.S. film studio 20th Century Fox. The company was founded on May 31, 1935 as a merger between Fox Film Corporation and 20th Century Pictures. For the films of those two companies, see List of pre-1940 Fox films and List of 20th Century Pictures films.







</doc>
<doc id="56438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56438" title="Andreas Starke">
Andreas Starke

Andreas Starke (SPD) (born 17 September 1956 in Hamburg) has been the Lord Mayor of Bamberg in Bavaria, Germany since 2006. He won the election against Peter Neller (CSU), Ursula Sowa (Bündnis 90/Die Grünen) and Norbert Tscherner (BBB).


</doc>
<doc id="56449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56449" title="Robert Enke">
Robert Enke

Robert Enke (born 24 August 1977 in Jena, East Germany - died 10 November 2009, Neustadt am Rübenberge, Germany) was a German football player. He was a goalkeeper for the Germany football team. 

Enke started to play football at "BSG Jenapharm Jena", a local club in his city. In 1985 he came to the youth teams of Jena's major football club, Carl Zeiss Jena. On 11 November 1995, at the age of 18, he had his first professional match for Jena in the German 2. Bundesliga. In 1996, he came to Borussia Mönchengladbach in the German Bundesliga.

From 1997 to 1999 he made fifteen matches for the German under-21 national team. In 1999 he was nominated as one of three goalkeepers of the national team and he went to the FIFA Confederations Cup in the same year. After leaving Germany in 1999 and playing in Portugal, Spain and Turkey, he was not nominated. 

In 2006, already playing two years back home, he was nominated as a stand-by goalkeeper for the world championships. After that he returned to the team, on 28 March 2007 he made his first match for the team (against Denmark). In May 2008 he became goalkeeper number two after Jens Lehmann who was already 38 years old. After the UEFA Euro 2008, Jens Lehmann left the national team. Since then, the goalkeepers changed often. On 8 October 2008, Enke broke his hand, so René Adler played his first match in the national team. Other goalkeepers who were tested were Manuel Neuer and Tim Wiese.

Enke's last club was Hannover 96. He had a contract until the year 2010. In 2007 he became team captain in his club. He had played eight matches for the national team. His last match for the national team was on 12 August 2009 against Azerbaijan, his last club match was on 8 November 2009 against Hamburg.

Enke and his wife had a daughter who died in 2006. She was two years old. In 2009 they adopted another daughter.

Enke died in the evening of 10 November 2009 when he was hit by a train near Neustadt am Rübenberge. His advisor said that Enke committed suicide. The next day, there was a press conference with Enke's widow and his psychiatrist. They said that Enke had had a major depressive disorder (depression) since the year 2003.


200||0
57||0
10||0
1||0
268||0

!Total||8||0


</doc>
<doc id="56451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56451" title="MediaWiki:Uploadtext/en">
MediaWiki:Uploadtext/en

<br clear=all>


</doc>
<doc id="56455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56455" title="Category:Aircraft companies">
Category:Aircraft companies


</doc>
<doc id="56460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56460" title="Velikiy Novgorod">
Velikiy Novgorod

Velikiy Novgorod (Russian:Вели́кий Но́вгород) is a city in the European part of Russia. It is about 200km from St. Petersburg. In 2007 about 217.000 people lived there. "Novgorod" is the Russian word for "new city" and "Velikiy" means "the Great". The city is actually one of the most historic in Russia. Its past can be traced to the 9th century.Alexander Nevsky was knaz there. It was also the only Russian province that was"not" captured by the Golden Horde.


</doc>
<doc id="56462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56462" title="Nizhny Novgorod">
Nizhny Novgorod

Nizhny Novgorod (Russian:Ни́жний Но́вгород, often shortened to "Nizhny") is the fourth largest city in Russia. The first three are Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Novosibirsk. Nizhny Novgorod had a population of 1,311,252 in 2002, and one of 1,438,133 in 1989. It is the economic and cultural center of the vast Volga-Vyatka economic region, and also the administrative center of Nizhny Novgorod Oblast and Volga Federal District.

From 1932 to 1990 the city was known as Gorky (Russian: Го́рький} after the writer Maxim Gorky.



</doc>
<doc id="56464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56464" title="Maxim Gorky">
Maxim Gorky

Aleksei Maksimovich Peshkov (In Russian Алексей Максимович Пешков) ( Old Style: March 28,1868, New style: March 16–June 18, 1936), better known as Maxim Gorky (Максим Горький), was a Soviet/Russian author, a founder of the socialist realism literary method and a political activist. From 1906 to 1913 and from 1921 to 1929 he lived abroad, mostly in Capri, Italy; after his return to the Soviet Union he accepted the cultural policies of the time, although he was not permitted to leave the country.



</doc>
<doc id="56465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56465" title="Ankh">
Ankh

The ankh was the Egyptian hieroglyphic character that stood for the word ʿnḫ, meaning life. Egyptian gods are often portrayed carrying it by its loop, or bearing one in each hand, arms crossed over their chest. It is also known as the Egyptian Cross, or as crux ansata, Latin for "cross with a handle".
"Ankhs" are viewed as a protective symbol, by those who study old Egypt, in terms of their use by ordinary people in that time.


</doc>
<doc id="56478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56478" title="Ingrid Bergman">
Ingrid Bergman

Ingrid Bergman (August 29 1915 – August 29 1982) was a Swedish actress. 

Born in Stockholm, Ingrid Bergman enrolled at Royal Dramatic Drama School and began acting in films in Sweden before being taken by producer David O. Selnick to Hollywood in 1939. Her first film there was a remake of a Swedish film she appeared in called "Intermezzo". 

The public quickly took to her and she soon established herself as one of the most popular movie stars of the time. Some of her most famous films include; "Casablanca" (1942), "Gaslight" (1944), "Spellbound" (1945), "Notorious" (1946).

At the height of her fame and success, she scandalized the world, when she began an affair with Italian director Roberto Rossellini, while still married to her first husband Dr. Peter Lindström. She and Rossellini were eventually married in 1950. 

She returned to Hollywood in 1956 with "Anastasia", which won her the Academy Award for best actress, followed by "The Inn of the Sixth Happiness" (1958). She went on appearing in films in both America and Europe. Her last role was in a television miniserie on the life of Golda Meir (1982).

Miss Bergman died in London, England, after a long battle with breast cancer. 

She had a daughter Pia (b. 1938) by her first husband Dr. Lindström, and a son Robertino (b. 1950) and twin daughters Isabella and Isotta (b. 1952) with Rossellini. 



</doc>
<doc id="56479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56479" title="Template:Expert">
Template:Expert


</doc>
<doc id="56480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56480" title="Template:Expert/doc">
Template:Expert/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
After adding this template, start a section on the article discussion page describing what you wish the expert to address. may be used for this purpose.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="56481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56481" title="Template:Expert-talk">
Template:Expert-talk


</doc>
<doc id="56482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56482" title="Ruwer-Hochwald-Radweg">
Ruwer-Hochwald-Radweg

The Ruwer-Hochwald-Radweg is a cycle trail. It links the Moselle-valley and
the Hunsrück from Trier to Hermeskeil in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.
The length is about :



</doc>
<doc id="56485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56485" title="Template:En icon">
Template:En icon


</doc>
<doc id="56486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56486" title="Template:Languageicon">
Template:Languageicon


</doc>
<doc id="56487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56487" title="Template:Languageicon/doc">
Template:Languageicon/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>





<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="56488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56488" title="Template:En icon/doc">
Template:En icon/doc

<includeonly></includeonly> 

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="56489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56489" title="Template:De icon">
Template:De icon


</doc>
<doc id="56490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56490" title="Template:Ru icon">
Template:Ru icon


</doc>
<doc id="56491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56491" title="Category:Language icons">
Category:Language icons


</doc>
<doc id="56494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56494" title="Novosibirsk">
Novosibirsk

Novosibirsk (Russian:Новосиби́рск , pronounced ) is Russia's third largest city, after Moscow and Saint Petersburg, and the administrative center of Novosibirsk Oblast. It is also the largest city in Siberia and the administrative center of Siberian Federal District. It is in the southwest of this district.

It was founded in 1893 as the future site of the Trans-Siberian Railway bridge crossing the great Siberian river Ob. Its importance further increased early in the 20th century with the completion of the Turkestan-Siberia Railway connecting Novosibirsk to Central Asia and the Caspian Sea. 

From 1893 until 1925 Novosibirsk was called Novonikolayevsk after Tsar Nicholas II.

The city lies along the Ob River in the West Siberian Plain. To the south is the Ukok Plateau part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site entitled "Golden Mountains of Altai". The climate is sharply continental, with very severe, cold and snowy winters and hot and dry summers. Temperatures in summer range from 20 to 25 °C (75 °F), in winter -18 to -20 °C (0 °F), but can reach -40 °C (-40 °F) in winter and 35-40 °C (100 °F) in summer. The difference between the highest and the lowest temperature is 88 °C (158 °F). Most of the time the weather is sunny, with an average of 2880 hours of sunshine per year.

Industries include machine manufacturing and metallurgy. It is the home of one of Novosibirsk State University (situated in nearby Akademgorodok), a number of institutes and a scientific research center. Novosibirsk boasts opera and ballet companies, several theaters, museums, and art galleries, and numerous sports facilities.


</doc>
<doc id="56499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56499" title="Alice Springs, Northern Territory">
Alice Springs, Northern Territory

Alice Springs is a city in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is 200 kms south of the centre of mainland Australia. It is about halfway between Darwin in the north and Adelaide in the south. 

In 2005 there were 26,486 people living in Alice Springs.. This makes it the second largest town in the Northern Territory.

Alice Springs is often called "the Alice" or simply "Alice.” It is called "Mparntwe" by the Arrernte. The Arrernte people are the Aboriginal people who have lived around Alice Springs for more than 50,000 years.

According to the Arrernte traditional stories, the land around Alice Springs was shaped by caterpillars, wild dogs, travelling boys, two sisters, euros and other ancestral figures. There are many sites of traditional importance in and around Alice Springs. These include Anthwerrke (Emily Gap), Akeyulerre (Billy Goat Hill), Ntaripe (Heavitree Gap), Atnelkentyarliweke (Anzac Hill) and Alhekulyele (Mt. Gillen).

In 1862, John McDouall Stuart led an expedition into Central Australia and the area where Alice Springs is located. Until the 1930s the town was known as Stuart. The Australian Overland Telegraph Line that joined Adelaide to Darwin and Great Britain was completed in 1872. It followed Stuart’s route. It opened up the interior for permanent European settlement. When surface alluvial gold was found at Arltunga, 100 km east of Alice Springs, in 1887 many people began to move into the area.

The telegraph station was built near a waterhole in the normally dry Todd River. It was thought to be a permanent source of water, and was named Alice Springs. Alice was the wife of the former Postmaster General of South Australia, Sir Charles Todd. The Todd River was named after Sir Charles. 

The original method of travel in the outback were camels. These camel trains were run by people from Pathan tribes in the North-West frontier of India and Pakistan. They were wrongly called ‘Afghans’ in Australia.

In 1929 the Palmerston and Pine Creek Railway was built from Darwin as far as Birdum, Northern Territory. The Great Northern Railway had been built in 1891 from Port Augusta as far as Oodnadatta, South Australia. The lines wouldn’t meet until 2003. On February 4, 2004, the first passenger train arrived in Darwin. 

During the 1960s Alice Springs became an important defence base. About 700 people work at the US/Australian Pine Gap joint defence satellite monitoring base. 

The major industry in recent times is tourism.

The town of Alice Springs built on the banks of the usually dry Todd River. It is on the northern side of MacDonnell Ranges. The region where Alice Springs is located is known as Central Australia, or the Red Centre. It is a very dry region, made up of several different deserts.

Temperatures can vary by up to 28 °C. In summer the average highest temperature is in the high 30s°C. In winter the average lowest temperature can be -7.5 °C. 

The rainfall can vary quite a lot from year to year. The annual average rainfall is 286 mm. In 2001 741 mm fell, but in 2002 only 198 mm fell.

Alice Springs began as a town to supply the cattle farms that first came to the area. The arrival of the railway increased its economy and productivity. Today the town supplies a region of 546,046 square kilometres. There are 38,749 people living in the region. The region includes a number of mining and farm communities, the Joint Defence Facility at Pine Gap and tourist attractions at Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park, Watarrka National Park and the MacDonnell Ranges.

In June 2004, 38,749 people lived in the region. There were 26,058 people living in the city of Alice Springs. Aboriginal people made up about 37% of people in the Alice Springs region in 2001.

According to the 2001 census, Australian Aborigines are about 17% of the people in Alice Springs, and 29% of the people in the Northern Territory. Alice Springs is the business centre of Central Australia. Aboriginal people come from all over the region to use the town's services. Aboriginal residents usually live in the suburbs, on special purpose leases (or town camps). Some live farther out at Amoonguna to the south. Many live on the small family outstation communities on Aboriginal Lands in surrounding areas.

The traditional owners of the Alice Springs area are the Central Arrernte people. As it is the largest town in central Australia, there are also speakers of at least thirteen other languages.

The American influence in Alice Springs comes from Pine Gap, a US satellite tracking station. It is 19 km south-west of Alice Springs. Pine Gap employs 700 American and Australians. There are about 2,000 people in the Alice Springs region who are US citizens.

American influence can be seen throughout Alice Springs. The Americans still celebrate all major festivals, including Halloween, Independence Day and Thanksgiving. A number of Australians also join in the festivities from time to time. There is also American sport, including baseball, basketball, and American football.

Alice Springs has a large number of visitors up of:

Alice Springs has 19 public and private schools and colleges. This includes 2 for aboriginal students, 7 pre-schools and the Alice Springs School of the Air. The School of the Air provides education to students in remote areas. The Alice Springs Campus of Charles Darwin University offers courses in TAFE and Higher Education. The Centre for Appropriate Technology was established in 1980. It has a range of services to encourage and help Aboriginal people improve their quality of life on remote communities.

Australian Rules Football is a popular sport in Alice Springs. The Central Australian Football League has several teams and many people play. The sport is very popular in Indigenous communities. The local stadium, Traeger Park, can hold 10,000 people. It was built to hold national AFL and international cricket matches. In 2004, an AFL pre-season Regional Challenge match between Collingwood Football Club and Port Adelaide Football Club filled the stadium.

Cricket is also a popular sport in Alice Springs. The Imparja Cup Cricket Carnival started in 1994. Teams from Indigenous communities come from all across Australia. A unique sporting event, held every year, is the Henley-on-Todd Regatta. This is also known as the Todd River Race. It is a sand river race with bottomless boats. It is the only dry river regatta in the world. Another unusual sporting event is the Camel Cup. This is also held every year at the local racetrack, Blatherskite Park. It is a full day event with races using camels instead of horses.


</doc>
<doc id="56500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56500" title="Recital">
Recital

A recital is a concert of classical music given by just one musician or one musician and an accompanist. A pianist playing a concert by himself will be giving a "piano recital". A "violin recital" will be given by a violinist and piano accompanist.

People started talking about "recitals" in the middle of the 19th century. Pianists such as Liszt became famous when they travelled about giving piano recitals. Soon piano manufacturers (firms that make pianos) and concert agents started to sponsor famous pianists to give recitals. These great pianists became great stars in the way that, in music, only opera singers had been great stars before. Some concert halls have become well-known places for recitals, e.g. the Bosendorfersaal in Vienna, the Beethovensaal in Berlin, the Wigmore Hall in London and the Carnegie Hall in New York.

Some pianists became known for playing recitals of music by just one composer. Recitals of Chopin's music were particularly popular. "Song recitals" (or "vocal recitals") are given by singers who sing Lieder and sometimes arias from operas.


</doc>
<doc id="56501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56501" title="Programme music">
Programme music

Programme music (or "program music" in US English) is a piece of music for instruments which describes something or tells a story. It is the opposite of "absolute music" which is not trying to describe anything, just the sound of the piece. Programme music was very popular in the 19th century although there are examples of programme music written earlier.

Some composers in the Renaissance and Baroque periods wrote music which described battles. Antonio Vivaldi wrote a very famous set of four concertos for violin and strings called "The Four Seasons". Each of the movements describe things happening during the year's seasons, e.g. the birds singing in the spring, snowy winter days, etc.

At the beginning of the 1800s, Beethoven wrote a which describes the peaceful life in the countryside. This way of making music describe things became very popular with Romantic composers. Mendelssohn wrote "concert overtures" which were overtures which had nothing to do with an opera but were simply short pieces of music for orchestra which told a story. "Hebrides Overture", for example, describes the sound of the sea lapping into Fingal's Cave in the Scottish Hebrides.

Franz Liszt made programme music very popular in his symphonic poems. Hector Berlioz's "Symphonie Fantastique" describes a story he made up himself about a man who has dreams about a woman he loves. The woman he loves is represented by a tune (melody) which is heard in different ways during the symphony. It is called an "idée fixe" (French for "fixed idea"). This way of linking a theme (tune) with a person led to Wagner's use of leitmotif in his operas in which a tune is linked to a person, event or idea. At the end of the 19th century Richard Strauss wrote several symphonic poems, often using a leitmotif to describe the person it is about. They include "Don Juan", "Don Quixote" and "Ein Heldenleben" ("A hero's life").


</doc>
<doc id="56508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56508" title="Anaerobic organism">
Anaerobic organism

An anaerobic organism is any living thing that does not need oxygen for growth. 


Microaerophiles are organisms that may use oxygen, but only at low concentrations (low micromolar range); their growth is inhibited by normal oxygen concentrations (approximately 200 micromolar). Nanaerobes are organisms that cannot grow in the presence of micromolar concentrations of oxygen, but can grow with and benefit from nanomolar concentrations of oxygen.

Obligate anaerobes may use fermentation or anaerobic respiration. In the presence of oxygen, facultative anaerobes use aerobic respiration; without oxygen some of them ferment, some use anaerobic respiration. Aerotolerant organisms are strictly fermentative. Microaerophiles carry out aerobic respiration, and some of them can also do anaerobic respiration.

Some anaerobic bacteria produce toxins (e.g., tetanus or botulinum toxins) that are highly dangerous to higher organisms, including humans.



</doc>
<doc id="56509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56509" title="Tetanus">
Tetanus

Tetanus is a disease that leads to muscle contractions that stay that way for some time.

Infection generally occurs through wound contamination, and often involves a cut or deep puncture wound. The primary symptoms are caused by tetanospasmin, a neurotoxin produced by the anaerobic bacterium "Clostridium tetani". As the infection goes on, muscle spasms develop in the jaw. This led to the common name of the condition, lockjaw. This is usually followed by difficulties with swallowing. The condition leads to general muscle stiffness and spasms in other parts of the body. Infection can be prevented by proper immunization and by post-exposure prophylaxis. 

For treatment and more see: Tetanus treatment



</doc>
<doc id="56512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56512" title="Immunization">
Immunization

Immunization is a way of preventing a person from getting a disease. This is done by making the person's body come into contact with a bit of the disease so that the body learns how to fight it. The body's ability to fight off a disease is called its immune system. 

The material is known as an immunogen. Immunization is the same as inoculation and vaccination because inoculation and vaccination use an infecting agent (something that infects) in the same way that immunization does.
When the human immune system is exposed to an infection once, it can learn how to cope quickly if it is exposed to it again. By exposing an individual to an immunogen in a controlled way, the body will be able to protect itself from that infection later on in life.


</doc>
<doc id="56514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56514" title="Category:User be">
Category:User be


</doc>
<doc id="56515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56515" title="Whipped cream">
Whipped cream

Whipped cream is a dairy food used in many desserts. It is made with heavy cream, a type of cream that contains a large amount of fat. 

To make whipped cream, a person whips or beats the heavy cream with a whisk or an electric mixer until it becomes fluffy and filled with air. For some desserts, people add icing sugar as a sweetener. Some people also add flavourings to whipped cream, such as vanilla.

Whipped cream is used in many types of desserts. Some desserts, such as apple pie or strawberry shortcake, are often served with whipped cream on top. Whipped cream is also served in milk shakes and on ice cream sundaes. Some desserts have whipped cream inside them, such as cream puffs and eclairs.


</doc>
<doc id="56516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56516" title="Tetanospasmin">
Tetanospasmin

Tetanospasmin is the neurotoxin produced by the vegetative spore of "Clostridium tetani" in anaerobic conditions, causing tetanus. It is sometimes called spasmogenic toxin, tetanus toxin or abbreviated to TeTx or TeNT. 


</doc>
<doc id="56518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56518" title="Neurotoxin">
Neurotoxin

A neurotoxin is a toxin that acts specifically on nerve cells – neurons – usually by interacting with membrane proteins and ion channels. 

Many of the venoms and other toxins that organisms use in defense against vertebrates are neurotoxins. A common effect is paralysis, which sets in extremely rapidly. The venom of bees, scorpions, pufferfish, spiders and snakes can contain many different toxins. Many neurotoxins act by affecting voltage-dependent ion channels.


</doc>
<doc id="56521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56521" title="Paralysis">
Paralysis

Paralysis is the complete loss of muscle function for one or more muscle groups, when the thing that is paralised can not move. 

Paralysis is most often caused by damage to the nervous system or brain, especially the spinal cord. Major causes are stroke, trauma, poliomyelitis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), botulism, spina bifida, multiple sclerosis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. Partial paralysis can also occur in the REM stage of sleep (see:Sleep paralysis). Paralysis often includes loss of feeling in the affected area.


</doc>
<doc id="56522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56522" title="Category:User be-1">
Category:User be-1


</doc>
<doc id="56523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56523" title="Membrane protein">
Membrane protein

A membrane protein is a protein molecule that is attached to, or associated with the membrane of a cell or an organelle. More than half of all proteins interact with membranes. Membrane proteins can be classified into two groups, based on the strength of their association with the membrane.

For further reading see: Membrane protein further reading




</doc>
<doc id="56524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56524" title="Category:Protection templates">
Category:Protection templates


</doc>
<doc id="56525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56525" title="Category:Semi-protected">
Category:Semi-protected


</doc>
<doc id="56526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56526" title="Category:Protected">
Category:Protected


</doc>
<doc id="56527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56527" title="Category:Oxfordshire">
Category:Oxfordshire


</doc>
<doc id="56549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56549" title="Tampa Bay Buccaneers">
Tampa Bay Buccaneers

The Tampa Bay Buccaneers are a American Football team in the National Football League (NFL). They are a part of the Southern Division of the National Football Conference. The Buccaneers are from Tampa, Florida. The team was founded in 1976. And are the champions from Super Bowl XXXVII.



</doc>
<doc id="56551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56551" title="Obelus">
Obelus

An obelus (plural, obeli) is a symbol consisting of a line with dots above and below, formula_1, used to represent the mathematical division operation. This symbol is also known as a division sign. 

The word "obelus" comes from the Greek word for a sharpened stick, spit, or pointed pillar. This is the same root as that of the word "obelisk".
The obelus was first used as a symbol for division in 1659 in the algebra book "Teutsche Algebra" by Johann Rahn. 
Today the obelus remains in occasional use, primarily as a standalone symbol for the division operation itself (as on a calculator), or as an operator in elementary arithmetic. In most contexts division is now signified in other ways, often by a forward slash (/). 



</doc>
<doc id="56552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56552" title="Category:String theory">
Category:String theory


</doc>
<doc id="56553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56553" title="Vinculum (symbol)">
Vinculum (symbol)

A vinculum is a horizontal line put over a mathematical expression. It shows that it belongs together as a group. ("Vinculum" is Latin for "chain".)

Examples are:

1. groups of digits repeating forever, for example,

2. fractions

3. radicals (in the following example the quantity formula_3 is the radicand, and thus has a vinculum over it):



</doc>
<doc id="56555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56555" title="Colon (punctuation)">
Colon (punctuation)

The colon (":") is a punctuation mark, visually consisting of two equally sized dots centered on the same vertical (up/down) line.

As with many other punctuation marks, the usage of colon varies among languages and, for a given language, among historical periods. As a rule, however, a colon informs the reader that what follows proves, clarifies, explains, or simply lists items in what is referred to before.

The following classification of the functions that a colon may have, given by Luca Serianni for Italian usage, is generally valid for English and many other languages:
This last was once a common means of indicating an unmarked quotation on the same line (from the Fowlers' grammar book, "The King's English") 

A colon may also be used for the following:

In English, a colon may be followed by text with either a capital letter or by a lower-case letter, depending on usage: where speech follows, a capital letter is used; where an acronym or proper noun follows, a capital is used; otherwise a lower-case letter is used. Some examples of text following a colon:

In European languages, the colon is usually followed by a lowercase letter (again, unless the uppercase is due to other reasons, such as a proper noun). Exceptions are Dutch and German, where an uppercase letter must be used if the colon is followed by a complete sentence or a noun, although in all other cases a lowercase letter should be used.

No space is put before a colon, except in French.

In Finnish and Swedish, the colon can appear inside words in a manner similar to the English apostrophe, between a word (or abbreviation, especially an acronym) and its grammatical (mostly genitive) suffixes. It occurs in names, for example ("Ax:son" for "Axelson"). It is done in loanwords and abbreviations; e.g., "USA:han" for the illative case of "USA". But for loanwords ending orthographically in a consonant but phonetically in a vowel, the apostrophe is used instead: e.g. "show'n" for the genitive case of the English loan "show".

The colon was established in the English language well before 1700.

A special double-triangle colon symbol is used in IPA to indicate that the preceding sound is long. Its form is that of two triangles, each a bit larger than a point of a standard colon, pointing toward each other. It is available in Unicode as modifier letter triangular colon, Unicode U+02D0 (). A regular colon is often used as a fallback when this character is not available, or in the practical orthography of some languages (particularly in Mexico) which have a phonemic long/short distinction in vowels.

The colon is also used in mathematics, cartography, model building and other fields to denote a ratio or a scale, as in 3:1 (pronounced "three to one").
Unicode provides a distinct ratio character, Unicode U+2236 () for mathematical usage.

In many non-Anglophone countries, the colon is used as a division sign: ""a divided by b"" is written as a : b.

The combination with an equal sign, formula_1, is used for definitions.

In computing, the colon character is represented by ASCII code 58, and is located at Unicode code-point U+003A. The full-width (double-byte) equivalent, ：, is located at Unicode code point U+FF1A.

The colon is quite often used as a special control character in many operating systems commands, URLs, computer programming languages, and in the path representation of several file systems. It is often used as a single post-fix delimiter, signifying a token keyword had immediately preceded it or the transition from one mode of character string interpretation to another related mode. Some applications, such as the widely used MediaWiki, utilize the colon as both a pre-fix and post-fix delimiter.

For a double-colon, "::" the meaning has included the use of ellipsis, as spanning over omitted text; however, there have been other meanings as well.

On the Internet (online chats, email, message boards, etc.) a colon, or multiple colons, is sometimes used to denote an action or emote. In this use, it has the inverse function of quotation marks; denoting actions where unmarked text is assumed to be dialog. For example:

Colons may also be used for sounds (as with ":Click:"). Compare to the use of outer asterisks (*word*).

It also has the widespread usage of representing two vertically aligned eyes in a emoticon, such as :-), :( :P, :D, etc.


</doc>
<doc id="56556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56556" title="Colon (disambiguation)">
Colon (disambiguation)

Colon could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="56557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56557" title="Wikipedia:Wikipedia is not a soapbox">
Wikipedia:Wikipedia is not a soapbox

"Part of ."

Wikipedia is not a soapbox, a battleground, or a vehicle for propaganda and advertising. Therefore, Wikipedia articles are not:



</doc>
<doc id="56559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56559" title="Tomorrow Never Knows">
Tomorrow Never Knows

Tomorrow Never Knows is a song from The Beatles's "Revolver" album, from 1966.

John Lennon wrote the song based on his readings of "The Psychedelic Experience", which adapted the "Tibetan Book of the Dead" for use as an LSD "user's manual", intending to give users a kind of religious experience. The song's title came from his bandmate Ringo Starr, who was known for his but insightful comments about life.

Lennon wanted the sound of monks , to complement the Beatles' recording of the song. It was not possible to do this, but Lennon's voice was played through a special speaker (called a Leslie speaker), to give it a sound, like a voice calling from a hilltop. Other sounds on the record came from tape loops, playing over and over, and from a sitar.

The song has also been recorded by other artists. A dance cover version appeared in the 1990s.


</doc>
<doc id="56560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56560" title="Gone with the Wind (movie)">
Gone with the Wind (movie)

Gone with the Wind is the 1939 movie based on Margaret Mitchell's book with the same name. The movie premiered in Atlanta, Georgia. It starred Vivien Leigh, Clark Gable, Leslie Howard, and Olivia de Havilland. "Gone with the Wind" told the story of the American Civil War from the perspective (view point) of a young southern woman named Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh).

Scarlett O'Hara (played by Vivien Leigh) is a spoiled, beautiful, young Southern woman living in Georgia in the year 1861. In this time, who a woman marries is very important to the rest of her life, and Scarlett loves only one man. His name is Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard). Unfortunately, Scarlett finds out that Ashley is going to marry a woman named Melanie Hamilton (Olivia de Havilland), his own cousin. During a barbecue at Ashley's plantation named Twelve Oaks, with all the families in the area, news arrives that a war between the Northern and Southern parts of the United States has begun. Before Scarlett lets Ashley marry Melanie, she decides to tell him how she really feels. While all the women were taking their naps to get rested for the upcoming party that evening, Scarlett slips down and waits for Ashley to come out of the "meeting" the men are having about the war. During the meeting, Rhett Butler, a rich, clever, confederate "gentleman", man stands up to warn the men about being to sure of their victory in the war. The men get mad, and Rhett decides to leave the room to let the men cool down. He decides to show himself around the house. Ashley leaves the room as well, to show Rhett around himself. But, before he can catch up with him, Scarlett peeps out from her hiding place and waves Ashley over. He follows her into a room where they can be alone. Scarlett tells Ashley how much she loves him, but Ashely has already made up his mind to marry Melanie. The wealthy and spoiled Scarlett throws a fit, and because of that Ashley leaves the room. Scarlett in a frenzy picks up a vase and heaves it across the room over a couch and into the wall. The charming Rhett Butler rises from the couch, scaring and embarrassing Scarlett. He agrees not to tell anyone about the conversation, although humorously mocking her about it all. Before all the men leave, Scarlett agrees to marry Charles Hamilton (Melanie's younger brother), only because she wants to get revenge on Ashley for marrying Melanie. Unfortunately, Charles gets sick and dies in the war, and Scarlett is left alone.

Scarlett goes to Atlanta, Georgia to stay with Melanie, although she really has Ashley in mind. While there, she sees Rhett Butler (Clark Gable), with whom she had the brief encounter with at the party. He makes Scarlett very uncomfortable but she agrees to dance with him at a party, a thing which she should not have done since her husband had just died and she is in mourning. But since she hated wearing black, and having no social life, she dances with him to the Virginia Reel. A few months later, the battle gets very close to Atlanta, and Melanie has Ashley's baby with Scarlett's help. Rhett helps them escape the battle and takes them home, but Scarlett finds her house, which she calls Tara, in very bad shape and Ashley Wilkes' home burned to the ground. Her father is very sick and her mother has died. Scarlett famously vows to always take care of herself and her family, no matter what it takes.

After an intermission (a short break used in very long movies), the movie returns to Tara, where Scarlett and her family are working very hard to survive. The far-away war is over now, and Ashley Wilkes arrives. Melanie and Scarlett are both very glad to see him, but Scarlett should not say so because he is Melanie's husband. Scarlett finds out that Rhett Butler is in jail and she plans to trick him into giving her some money to help her family. However, the scheme does not go according to Scarlett's plan, and in her anger, Scarlett meets a man she knew from before the war. His name is Frank Kennedy, and because he is a very good businessman, Scarlett decides to marry him, despite the fact that he was going to marry her own sister.

Frank, however, is killed when he goes to clear out a shantytown, where beggars lived after the war because they could not afford to live anywhere else. Amazingly, Scarlett is not without a husband for long, because Rhett proposes to her and she accepts. This angers the other residents of Atlanta because they do not think it is right for her to marry so soon after Frank died. Rhett promises to help rebuild Scarlett's home and they build another mansion in Atlanta. Scarlett has a baby that Rhett names Bonnie. After Bonnie is born, Scarlett says she will have no more children, and Rhett takes the news badly. Scarlett still wishes she could marry Ashley Wilkes, and she sees him one day and is caught hugging him. Melanie is very forgiving and refuses to believe anything bad about her friend Scarlett or her husband Ashley. Rhett, however, is very angry and hurt, but he finds out that Scarlett is pregnant with another baby. He accidentally pushes her too hard and she falls down the stairs, killing their unborn child.

Scarlett and Rhett are further devastated (very upset) when Bonnie, now their only child, has an accident while riding her horse and dies. Melanie is also very sick, pregnant with another baby. News reaches Scarlett and Rhett that Melanie will probably die, and they hurry to see her. While Melanie and Scarlett are alone, Melanie asks Scarlett to look after her husband, Ashley, and to never stop loving Rhett, who loves Scarlett very much. She dies just after, and Ashley is extremely upset. Scarlett finally realizes how much Melanie meant to Ashley, and that Scarlett could never have meant so much to him.

Scarlett hurries home to find Rhett and tell him how much she loves him, but he tells her he wants a divorce because he feels like she never loved him. He is still very hurt by losing Bonnie, his daughter, and he leaves Scarlett feeling like she has nothing left. Then, she realizes she always has her home to return to, and if nothing else, her home will last forever.

There are many famous lines from this movie. People remember these lines and think they are important to the movie.








Although "Gone with the Wind" premiered in 1939, it is still remembered today as one of the greatest American movies of all time. When it was released in Atlanta, a parade came before it, plus three days of parties in which the stars of the movie wore costumes and many stores in the city redecorated to look like they would have in the Civil War.

"Gone with the Wind" received 10 Academy Awards in 1940.

It was nominated for five more.

"Gone with the Wind" was named the #4 best movie of all time by the American Film Institute. The quote "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn," said by Rhett Butler at the end of the movie, was voted the #1 greatest movie quote of all time.

"Gone with the Wind" has become the movie that made the most money of all time, after taking inflation into account.



</doc>
<doc id="56561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56561" title="Titanic">
Titanic

Titanic can refer to



</doc>
<doc id="56576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56576" title="Santino Marella">
Santino Marella

Anthony John Carelli (born March 14, 1979) is an Canadian professional wrestler. He currently works for World Wrestling Entertainment on their "RAW" brand as Santino Marella. 

Carrelli made his WWE debut on the April 16 edition of WWE Raw under the name of Santino Marella. He won the WWE Intercontinental Championship after Umaga was attacked by Bobby Lashley. With this, he became one of a few superstars to win a title in their first match.


</doc>
<doc id="56579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56579" title="Fresco">
Fresco

Fresco is a way of painting pictures. A "fresco" is a painting that is done on a wall. All wall paintings are sometimes called "frescoes" by mistake. A true "fresco" is painted onto plaster that is fresh. The plaster has been laid on the wall that day and is still damp. The word "fresco" comes from the Italian for "fresh". 
"Fresco" is a very good way of painting pictures on walls. It is much easier than painting on dry plaster because when paint is put onto dry plaster, it sinks straight in. Painting on fresh plaster means that the artist can spread the paint much easier. 

Another reason why it is a good way to paint pictures on plastered walls is that the paint joins with the plaster so that the colours will not rub off. Frescoes last for hundreds of years. If they are kept clean and dry, the colours will stay bright for a very long time. 

Fresco is the "green" method of painting because it does not use dangerous chemicals. The water, the calcite and the colours do not cause pollution. 

The problems with painting "frescos" come from the plaster. It must be mixed up and put on the wall freshly every day and left to partly dry before it can be used. As the plaster begins to dry or "set", the artist can start the picture. The plaster becomes very hot while it is drying, giving off steam, and a plastery smell.
The artist must work very quickly and carefully. If he/she makes a mistake, the plaster must be scraped off. Unlike most other types of painting, frescos can not be moved from place to place, or rearranged.

The artist must plan the work carefully. It starts with a small drawing of the picture, The artists then makes a large drawing, called a "cartoon", and works out the right order to paint the picture, because a big picture might take more than a week to paint. Each day's work is called by the Italian name "giornata". "Giorno" means "day". 

When the day's work starts, the artist needs to work fast so there is usually another worker or "assistant" who mixes the plaster and helps the artist. 

The artists pins up a drawing and uses a sharp point to mark the lines of the drawing onto the plaster. He/she then paints the outlines of the picture onto the plaster. "Accuracy" is very important; the artist must get it right in one go. 
As the painting dries, the artist works over the whole "giornata" again, putting in details of the faces and the clothing, and painting shadows. 

At the beginning of the next day's work, the plaster edge of the last "giornata" is scraped so that the new plaster joins well. Often it is possible to see the joins and work out how many "giornata" it took to do a single painting.

Not all wall paintings are frescoes. In Ancient Egypt, for example, many of the wall paintings were done on dry plaster and are not true frescoes. 

The Royal Palace at Knossos in Crete, c. 1500 BC, had many frescoes. The scene of athletes dancing with a bull is the most famous. 

Many Ancient Roman wall paintings can be seen at Pompeii from the 1st century AD, but these are not true frescoes. 
There are many frescoes dating from the late Middle Ages, about 1000-1400 AD when, it was the fashion to paint the inside of churches with people and stories from the Bible. The order of the pictures was carefully planned by the artists and priests. Above the altar is usually seen a picture of Jesus Christ. On the west wall is often a frightening picture of The Last Judgement to remind people to turn to Jesus. Many frescoes like this can be seen in Greece, Spain, Portugal, Serbia, Armenia, Romania and Russia. There are a few in Germany, France and Italy.

In Italy, around 1300 AD, the artist Giotto painted frescoes that were so full of life that people were amazed. Each picture was like looking onto a stage where real people told the story. This was the beginning of the period of art history called the Renaissance. Giotto's frescoes became so famous that he had many pupils and followers. Giotto's most famous frescoes are in the Arena Chapel in Padua. He also painted in the Church of St. Francis at Assisi and at Santa Croce (Church of the Holy Cross) in Florence.

A hundred years later, about 1400 AD, two artists called Masolino and Masaccio worked in the city of Florence, painting a chapel. Their names translate as "Little Tom" and "Fat Tom". Masaccio's way of painting was the biggest change since Giotto, in particular the two weeping naked figures of Adam and Eve. Everyone thought that Masaccio was one of the greatest painters alive. But he died at only 27 years old. These frescoes are in the Church of the Carmine, in Florence.

In the 1400s many other artists in Italy were given the job of painting churches or chapels. They were paid by "patrons", rich people who could afford an artist. The most important patron was the Pope. Pope Sixtus IV had built a new chapel in the Vatican in Rome. In 1481, he got some of the best artists in Italy to decorate the walls for him. See Sistine Chapel. 

In 1508 the work continued in the Sistine Chapel when Pope Julius II made the great artist Michelangelo go to Rome to paint the ceiling. It took him four years, and he became sick from the strain and the smell. But when he had finished, he had painted one of the greatest artworks in the world. Then, 1537-1541, he painted the west wall of the same chapel with The Last Judgement

For the next 200 years, painted ceilings were in fashion. But artists soon discovered that it was easier to paint in oil on canvas and put it up on the ceiling than to paint on the ceiling in fresco. The fashion for fresco painting began to fade.





</doc>
<doc id="56580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56580" title="The Count of Monte Cristo">
The Count of Monte Cristo

The Count of Monte Cristo () is a novel by Alexandre Dumas, père. The book was written in 1844. 

It is story of revenge and forgiveness. The main character of the book, Edmond Dantès, is wrongly sent to prison for treason. Because he was taken away from his lover, Mercedes, he becomes very sad. 

Edmond stays in a prison dungeon for fourteen years. He meets another prisoner, an old priest named Faria, while digging to escape. The old man speaks of him many things, like languages and geography. Faria teaches Dantes knowledge.

Before the old priest dies, he tells Edmond the secret to a large treasure.

When the old man dies, Edmond uses it as a way to escape. The prison guards do not know he is hiding, taking the place of the old priest's body. They throw him into the sea and he escapes.

Later he finds the huge treasure on an island and becomes very rich. His sadness turns into hatred and the need for revenge. Dantès then carries out a complicated plan of revenge on the three people who caused him to be wrongly imprisoned.



</doc>
<doc id="56581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56581" title="Hallandale Beach, Florida">
Hallandale Beach, Florida

Hallandale Beach is a city in Broward County, Florida, United States. The city is named after Luther Halland, a worker for Henry Flagler's Florida East Coast Railroad. The population was 37,282 at the 2000 census. Sometimes the city is called the "southernmost Canadian city". This is because Hallandale Beach has been a popular vacation spot for years, and most of the tourists come from Quebec and the northeast United States. Throughout the years, a large number of these tourists eventually move to the area to live there.


</doc>
<doc id="56587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56587" title="Nazi Party">
Nazi Party

The Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei ("National Socialist German Workers' Party", NSDAP), also known as the Nazi Party, was a German political party. It was started in 1920 from the "Deutsche Arbeiterpartei" (German Workers' party) (DAP). That party was renamed to NSDAP later. On the day of its founding, the party published its 25 point manifesto (book of ideas). The items in this list of ideas included getting rid of the Treaty of Versailles, gaining more land for the German people, to confiscate any income not earned through working, to take away citizenship from Jewish people, to reform the education system, freedom of religion except those that weakened the German nation, and to set up a strong central German government. Until 1923, the party was most popular in Bavaria.

In 1923, Adolf Hitler and Erich Ludendorff tried to start a coup d'etat in Munich to take over Germany, but they failed. This battle was called the Beer Hall Putsch Hitler was given five years in prison for "high treason". This is a very small sentence. Other people were given the death penalty. The NSDAP was also banned. While he was in prison, Adolf Hitler wrote most of "Mein Kampf" (My ). In this book he wrote down his political ideas and his future plans for Germany.

In 1924, Adolf Hitler was released early from prison. He restarted the NSDAP. He wanted to gain power legally by elections. The next elections to the Reichstag were in 1928. Until then, the NSDAP was only one of a few nationalist, parties from the extreme right. There were many other parties with similar ideas then. Among people supporting the party were Fritz Thyssen and Emil Kirdorf, both leaders of big industries.

In the 1928 election, the party won 2.6 percent of the vote. The party decided to reduce antisemitic slogans, in order to do better next time. The party focused on terrorising the people, as well as more on international policy, and got around 10 % of the vote in local elections in 1929 and 1930.

In 1930, President Paul von Hindenburg dissolved the Reichstag. This was seen as an opportunity for the NSDAP. In the elections on September 14, 1930, the NSDAP won 18.3% of the vote, and was the second biggest party. What people wanted was to put away with the Weimar Republic "Weimarer Republik". Weimar was the German city where the constitution for Germany was written after the First World War. People also wanted a stronger Germany with more troops. Germany banned from having some types of weapons and ships by the Treaty of Versailles. All those points were in the programme of the NSDAP. That is why so many people voted for them.

On the 30 January 1933, Franz von Papen offered to make Adolf Hitler Chancellor in a nationalist cabinet. This was done in secret. This was a "Machtübergabe" or transfer of power but later the NSDAP started to call this event the "Machtergreifung" (seizing power), because it was better for Nazi propaganda to say that they came and took over from the Weimar Republic, in stead of being made the legal government of the Weimar Republic.

In the last "free" election in Weimar Germany was in March 1933, the NSDAP won 44 % of the vote. This was not the majority. Nevertheless, they managed to get the required two thirds majority to pass the "Ermächtigungsgesetz" (Enabling Act). Based on this, they dissolved parliament, gave Hitler the power to do anything he wanted, and made all parties (except the NSDAP) illegal.

After this the NSDAP became very important. People had to be party members to get some jobs, or to get promoted. The NSDAP was busy until the surrender of Germany on 8 May 1945.

The NSDAP dissolved itself on 8 May 1945 and ceased to exist.

The made some reforms which still exist today.

But the Nazis did so many bad things that in Germany today it is illegal to display the Swastika symbol (on the flag above) or use slogans such as "Sieg Heil." In November 2010, a UK member of the European Parliament, Godfrey Bloom, was forced to leave the building. He had shouted the Nazi slogan, "Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Führer", at a German member of the parliament.

 "Wir Mussen Die Judan Austritan"
 "We hate the Jews and foreigner"


</doc>
<doc id="56589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56589" title="Carl Nielsen">
Carl Nielsen

Carl Nielsen (born Sortelung, near Nørre Lyndelse on Funen, June 9, 1865; died Copenhagen, October 3, 1931) was a Danish composer. He is the most famous composer from Denmark and one of the most important composers of symphonies from the late 19th and early 20th centuries.

Carl Nielsen was the 7th in a family of 12 children. His father’s name was Niels Jørgensen. It was Danish tradition for a child to get his father’s first name as his surname, so Carl became Carl Nielsen (“son of Niels”).

The family was very poor and Carl had to help in the home. During the school holidays he looked after the geese. His father, who was a simple painter, played the violin and cornet in the village band. Carl soon learned to play the violin and joined in with his father’s band. He listened to music by Haydn and Mozart and became very interested in general knowledge. All his life he tried to learn new languages and was interested in literature, art and philosophy. He loved animals and the nature around him.
When he was 14, he had a job in the military orchestra in the nearby town of Odense. He played the horn and trombone. In 1884 some wealthy people in Odense paid for him to go to the Conservatory in Copenhagen. He studied music there and did quite well, but there was nothing yet to show that he would be a brilliant composer. He got a job as violinist in the Royal Chapel, a good orchestra which was conducted by Johan Svendsen. He got to know the music of Wagner, and he went to Germany to study it. Later he was not so keen on Wagner’s music, and he was not much influenced by it.

In 1891, he married Anne Marie Brodersen who was a sculptress. They travelled together to Italy where they saw lots of great art. When they returned to Denmark Nielsen started composing some of the music that was to make him famous. In 1901 the Danish government paid him money every year so that he did not have to teach and could spend his time composing. He also conducted the Royal Theatre when Svendsen retired. He often travelled to other countries and, later, did some teaching and examining at the Copenhagen Conservatoire. He was made director of the conservatoire in 1931, shortly before he died.

Nielsen suffered for several years from heart trouble. He died from this disease on October 3, 1931.

Carl Nielsen wrote nearly every kind of music: opera, chamber music, symphony, concerto, songs. His music was different from the Romantic music that other composers were writing at that time. Nielsen liked the music of the Classical period, especially Haydn and Mozart. He learned from them, but also used a lot of chromaticism and interesting orchestral sounds which made his music much more modern.

He wrote a serious opera called "Saul og David" and a comic opera "Maskarade". He wrote a lot of Danish songs which are very popular in Denmark.

By far the most important of his works internationally are his six symphonies and three concertos. The Fourth and Fifth Symphonies, especially, are performed very often by orchestras all over the world.

He wrote a very large work for organ called "Commotio".

Nielsen always said how important his simple village background was for his music. This can be heard clearly in his popular cantata "Fynsk Foraar" ("Springtime in Funen") which shows his love of the countryside where he grew up.


</doc>
<doc id="56593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56593" title="Category:Danish composers">
Category:Danish composers


</doc>
<doc id="56612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56612" title="Madonna and Child">
Madonna and Child

The Madonna and Child or The Virgin and Child is often the name of a work of art which shows the Virgin Mary and the Child Jesus. The word "Madonna" means "My Lady" in Italian. Artworks of the Christ Child and his mother Mary are part of the Roman Catholic tradition in many parts of the world including Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, South America and the Philippines. Paintings known as icons are also an important tradition of the Orthodox Church and often show the Mary and the Christ Child. They are found particularly in Eastern Europe, Russia, Egypt, the Middle East and India. 

Works of art which show the "Madonna and Child" can be paintings or sculptures. Some paintings are very large and show the Madonna on a throne, with saints standing around it. These paintings are altarpieces; they are designed to go above the altar in a church. 

In some churches, particularly in Italy and in Eastern Orthodox Churches, there are many wall paintings and mosaics of the "Madonna and Child".

Most "Madonna and Child" paintings are small. They have been painted for private owners and would usually have been kept in houses. They might be hung on the wall above a table where flowers and candles could be placed to honour the Virgin Mary. Most of the famous ones are now in art galleries. 
Many Catholic churches have statues of the Virgin Mary with the Christ Child, These are sometimes life-sized and are painted, with real hair and glass eyes so that they look lifelike. 

Other statues of the "Madonna and Child" are very small. In the Middle Ages small statues were carved from ivory. These precious statues are often very beautifully and delicately made. They can often be seen in museums. 

In Florence in the early 1400s, an artist called Luca della Robbia began making "terracotta" statues and sculptured altarpieces from clay, which were fired and "glazed" with colours, most often blue and white, but also purple, green and yellow. This family business lasted for 120 years.

Many statues of the "Madonna and Child" may be factory-made and sold as souvenirs. This tradition of small statues has been around for hundreds of years. Many of them were made in artist's workshops in the Early Renaissance 

In the Orthodox Church, there is also a long tradition of painting images of the Virgin Mary with the Christ Child. These pictures, which are often quite small and are painted on wooden panels, are often very careful copies of particular famous icons. This tradition continues to the present day. 

These three famous paintings are all together in one room of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. Two of these paintings are from the Middle Ages, but Giotto's painting is an Early Renaissance painting, as can be seen in the natural, solid look of the figures which seem to be "three dimensional". 


Many churches contain famous statues of the "Madonna and Child", particularly old churches. 




</doc>
<doc id="56614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56614" title="Göppingen">
Göppingen

Göppingen is a town in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. In 2005 there were 57,771 people living in Göppingen. It is at the bottom of the high "Kaiserberg", or "Emperors' Mountain".

The first settlement at Göppingen was in the Hallstatt period, 800-480 BC. A Roman settlement from about 250 BC was found near the present day Oberhofen Church. An Alemannic prince by the name of "Geppo", is believed to have started the town after the sometime in the 3rd or 4th century. The town is named after him.

A fire on August 25 1782 destroyed most of the town, but it was immediately rebuilt. During the 1800's, many factories were built in the area. Companies such as Märklin and Schuler are still based in the town.

In 1930, an air field was built north of Göppingen. This was taken over by the Luftwaffe in 1935 and was called the Fliegerhorst Kaserne (barracks). From 1945 to 1949, displaced persons and refugees were housed in the buildings. In 1949, it was renamed Cooke Barracks, after Charles H. Cooke, Jr., who been killed in action and given the Silver Star and Soldier's Medal for bravery.

In late 1950, the 7th Army had been reformed in Stuttgart and U.S. Army units began to be stationed at Cooke Barracks. The barracks were made bigger for the 28th Infantry Division headquarters. The 28th Infantry was renamed as the 9th Infantry Division (United States) in 1954 and was replaced by the 8th Infantry Division in 1956. They were then replaced by the 4th Armored Division in 1957, which was renamed as the 1st Armored Division in 1971 and moved to Hindenburg Kaserne in Ansbach in 1972. The 1st Infantry Division moved from Augsburg in 1972 until 1991. 

Cooke Barracks were given back to the German government in 1992. The barracks were again used to house refugees for some time, then returned to civilian use. 

Frisch Auf! Göppingen currently plays in the German first handball-division (Handball-Bundesliga).



</doc>
<doc id="56616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56616" title="National Gallery, London">
National Gallery, London

The National Gallery, London is an art gallery in London, England, which has one of the finest collections of European paintings in the world. 
What makes this gallery so important is that, although there are bigger galleries, "The National Gallery" has many paintings of very high quality and also because it has paintings by famous artists whose works are very rare. These rare paintings include works by Duccio, Masaccio, Uccello, Piero della Francesca, Leonardo, Giorgione, Michelangelo, Caravaggio, Vermeer, Chardin, Klimt, Rousseau and Redon. 

"The National Gallery" is on Trafalgar Square, which is one of the busiest tourist places in London. It is a grand building of pale grey limestone, with a central dome and a large Classical style porch ("portico") like an Ancient Greek temple. To the left side, the gallery has a large new building called "The Sainsbury Wing". 

In 1823 a collector called Sir George Beaumont offered to give his famous collection of paintings to the British Government to start a public art gallery. In 1824 another famous collection of paintings was on sale. The owner, John Julius Angerstein, had died. It looked as if his paintings would be sold outside England. Then there was another offer of paintings from a third collector, The Reverend Holwell Carr. The Parliament had to make a quick decision. 

The Parliament voted that a national collection should be started and a gallery should be built. They gave 60,000 Pounds Sterling to buy the Angerstein paintings. They got 38 pictures and were able to display them publicly in the Angerstein House. 

The collection grew quickly with the Beaumont and Holwell Carr paintings, and others, being bought or given. A new gallery was needed. In 1831 the plans of the architect William Wilkins were accepted. The site which looks over Trafalgar Square was chosen, old buildings were demolished and the magnificent new gallery was opened on April 9, 1838. 

When "the National Gallery" opened, there was a strong opinion that paintings of the High Renaissance period of the late 1400s to Baroque paintings of the 1600s were the finest type of art. The word "primitive" was used to describe Italian paintings from the 1300s and early 1400s. Luckily, the director of the Gallery, Sir Charles Eastlake, thought it was important to collect some of these "primitive" paintings, as well as the more popular High Renaisance paintings. That is how the "National Gallery" came to own so many very rare works from the Late Middle Ages and Early Renaissance periods. 

In the 1870s the Gallery was lucky to get two collections of paintings by famous Dutch artists. The building had to be made larger to house them. The Gallery was also given paintings by famous British artists; soon there were so many that most of them were moved out to a new gallery called the Tate Museum of British Art. 

By the 20th century, it was getting more difficult to buy very important paintings; there were other galleries in the United States and Germany who were trying to buy the same paintings. So the "National Gallery" began to buy works by more modern painters and soon had a collection of 19th and early 20th century paintings. This is not a large part of the "National Gallery's" collection, but it does show small works by many very important artists, particularly the French Impressionists.












</doc>
<doc id="56617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56617" title="Unperson">
Unperson

In the George Orwell book Nineteen Eighty-Four, an Unperson is someone who has been vaporized. Vaporization is when a person is murdered by being turned into vapors. Not only has an "unperson" been killed; they have also been from society, the present, the universe, and existence. Such a person would be taken out of books, photographs, and articles so that no trace of them is found in the present anywhere — no record of them would be found. The point of this was that such a person would be gone from all citizens' memories, even friends and family. There is no Newspeak word for what happened to unpeople, therefore it is thoughtcrime to say an unperson's name or think of unpeople. This is like the Stalinist Soviet Party erasing people from photographs after death; this is an example of "real" unpeople.

A similar punishment, damnatio memoriae, was used in the Roman Empire. The Stalin-era Soviet Union also provided real-world examples of unpersons in its treatment of Leon Trotsky and other members of the Communist party who became politically inconvenient. In his 1960 magazine article "Pravda means 'Truth'", reprinted in Expanded Universe, Robert A. Heinlein argued that John Paul Jones and a mysterious May 15, 1960 cosmonaut had also received this treatment.


</doc>
<doc id="56624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56624" title="Düren">
Düren

Düren is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany between Cologne and Aachen. About 90,000 people live there. Düren is located at the river Rur.


</doc>
<doc id="56626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56626" title="Gütersloh">
Gütersloh

Gütersloh is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 96,000 people live there.


</doc>
<doc id="56628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56628" title="Iserlohn">
Iserlohn

Iserlohn is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 96,000 people live there.


</doc>
<doc id="56629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56629" title="Velbert">
Velbert

Velbert is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 87,000 people live there.


</doc>
<doc id="56631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56631" title="Lünen">
Lünen

Lünen is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. 88,000 people live there. Lünen has got two important football clubs: Lüner SV and BV Brambauer. Lüner SV is playing in the "Bezirksliga (8. league), but in 1963 the club achieved his greatest aim. They got Champion of Westphalia.


</doc>
<doc id="56632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56632" title="Marl">
Marl

Marl is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 91,000 people live there.



</doc>
<doc id="56636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56636" title="Bocholt">
Bocholt

Bocholt is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 73,000 people live there.


</doc>
<doc id="56638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56638" title="Roman Abramovich">
Roman Abramovich

Roman Abramovich (born 24 October 1966 in Saratov, Russia) is a Russian businessman. He is one of the richest men in the world. According to 2006 Forbes Magazine, he has a net worth of $18.2 billion . He owns Chelsea F.C., an English Premiership football club. He has given Chelsea a lot money to pay their players, and buy new ones. He is governor of a region of Russia. 



</doc>
<doc id="56652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56652" title="Morena Baccarin">
Morena Baccarin

Morena Baccarin (born June 2, 1979) is an Italian-Brazilian actress. She is best known for her role as Inara Serra in the sci-fi television series "Firefly" and the movie "Serenity". Morena was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Her mother is Brazilian stage and television actress Vera Setta.

When she was 10, Baccarin moved with her family to Greenwich Village, New York, in the United States. She later attended the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts (the High School in the movie "Fame") before she studied theater at Juilliard. 




</doc>
<doc id="56660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56660" title="José Mourinho">
José Mourinho

José Mourinho (born January 26, 1963 in Setúbal) is a Portuguese football manager. He is the current manager of Serie A club Internazionale Milano. Mourinho is thought to be one of the best coaches in Europe. He won four league titles in a row (two at Porto and two at Chelsea). He has also won the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Cup with Porto. For two consecutive years (2004 and 2005), Mourinho was named the world's best football coach by the International Federation of Football History and Statistics (IFFHS). After leaving Chelsea F.C., he was replaced by Avram Grant. He went to coach Internazionale Milano and won the Italian Super Cup in August 2008.



</doc>
<doc id="56664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56664" title="Sawmill">
Sawmill

A sawmill is a facility where lumber is cut into boards.

A sawmill's basic operation is much like those of 100 years ago; a log enters on one end and dimensional lumber exits on the other end. 
Sawmills seem to have existed in the medieval period, as one was sketched by "Villard de Honnecourt" in c.1250. On the other hand people think they were introduced to Madeira following its discovery in c.1420 and spread widely in Europe in the 16th century. 

The Dutchman "Cornelis Corneliszoon" (1550-1607) invented his type of sawmill by applying a pitman arm onto a wind mill, which converted a turning motion into an up-an-down motion. Corneliszoon patented the sawmill on December 15, 1593 and the pitman on December 6, 1597. He built the first sawmill there in 1594. 

Before to the invention of the sawmill, boards were sawn by two men with a whipsaw, using saddleblocks to hold the log, and a pit for the pitman who worked below. Sawing was slow, and required strong and enduring men. The topsawer had to be the stronger of the two because the saw was pulled in turn by each man, and the lower had the advantage of gravity. The topsawyer also had to guide the saw so that the board was of even thickness. This was often done by following a chalkline.

Early sawmills simply adapted the whipsaw to mechanical power, generally driven by a water wheel to speed up the process. The circular motion of the wheel was changed to back-and-forth motion of the saw blade by a Connecting rod known as a "pitman" (thus introducing a term used in many mechanical applications). A pitman is similar to a crankshaft, but in reverse; a crankshaft converts back-and-forth motion to circular motion.

Generally, only the saw was powered, and the logs had to be loaded and moved by hand. An early improvement was the development of a movable carriage, also water powered, to steadily move the log through the saw blade.

A small mill such as this would be the center of many rural communities in wood-exporting regions such as the Baltic countries and Canada. The output of such mills would be quite low, perhaps only 500 boards per day. They would also generally only operate during the winter, the peak logging season.

In the United States, the sawmills was introduced soon after the colonisation of Virginia by recruiting skilled men from Hamburgh. Later the metal parts were obtained from the Netherlands, where the technology was far ahead of that in England, where the sawmill reamiend largely unknown until the late 18th century. The arrival of a sawmill was a large and stimulative step in the growth of a frontier community. 

Early mills were taken to the forest, where a temporary shelter was built, and the logs were skidded to the nearby mill by horse or ox teams, often when there was some snow to provide lubrication. As mills grew larger, they were usually established in more permanent facilities on a river, and the logs were floated down to them by log drivers. 

Technology has changed sawmill operations significantly in recent years, emphasizing increasing profits through waste minimization and increased energy efficiency as well as improving operator safety.




</doc>
<doc id="56668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56668" title="Category:Relativity">
Category:Relativity

The theory of relativity includes Albert Einstein's theories of special and general relativity.


</doc>
<doc id="56670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56670" title="Hazrat Babajan">
Hazrat Babajan

Hazrat Babajan (1806-1931), who's birthname was Gool Rukh ("like a rose"), was born as a Pathan princess in a royal Muslim family of Balochistan in northern British India Empire(now Pakistan). At the age of 18 she fled her arranged marriage and sought God instead. She journeyed to the northeast, first to Peshawar and then to Rawalpindi, disguised by her Muslim veil. She lived for a year and a half in the mountainous regions of what is now Pakistan under the guidance of a Hindu sadguru, then traveled to Punjab. In Multan, at the age of 37, she received God-realization from an Islamic qutub (Muslim master), Maula Shah.

Babajan is most famously remembered as the spiritual master of Meher Baba. 


</doc>
<doc id="56677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56677" title="Concept album">
Concept album

A concept album is a kind of album in which all the songs are about the same thing. Most of the time, they tell a story.

Examples of concept albums are:



</doc>
<doc id="56678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56678" title="Convenience food">
Convenience food

Convenience food is a type of food. This kind of food has been made so it can save the consumers time to prepare it. Usually such foods just need to be heated. They are designed for a long shelf life, so that they can stay in the store for a long time. One thing to remember is that you may have to pay for the convenience, as this food is often expensive.

Many people criticise these products, because:





</doc>
<doc id="56679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56679" title="Zippo">
Zippo

A Zippo lighter is a refillable metal lighter made by Zippo Manufacturing Company since 1933. Many different styles have been made since 1933, such as the pipe Zippo, for lighting pipes. Many people collect Zippos. Some Zippos are worth a lot of money.

Zippo lighters are wind-proof, which means that the wind can not blow them out. The most common fuel for Zippos is naphtha.


</doc>
<doc id="56685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56685" title="Template:Please leave this line alone (sandbox heading)">
Template:Please leave this line alone (sandbox heading)

<includeonly>
</sub>
</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="56687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56687" title="Wikipedia:Tutorial (Editing)/sandbox">
Wikipedia:Tutorial (Editing)/sandbox


</doc>
<doc id="56688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56688" title="Wikipedia:User page">
Wikipedia:User page

Wikipedia provides user pages for easier communication among people in its project to build an encyclopedia.

If your username is "Example":

The and special pages will take each user to her or his own user and user talk pages. Others will not be able to find your user page using , they will be able to visit it only by going to (for the example user).

Details about you generally should not go in the main , which is only for encyclopedic content.

If you do not want to have a user page, then you should it to your user talk page to make it easier for other editors.

To start with, you could add a userpage notice. The text "<nowiki></nowiki>" will make a tag which looks something like the one below. You do not have to do this but it can be helpful, especially for viewers new to Wikipedia who might not know what a personal page is doing on an encyclopedia.
Your user-page is for anything that is about the Simple Wikipedia project. It is wrong to think of it as a homepage: . Instead, think of it as a way of organizing the work that you are doing on the articles in Wikipedia, and also a way of helping other editors to understand with whom they're working.

Some people add information about themselves, such as their email address and instant messaging, a photograph, their real name, where they live, what they are good at, their interests, likes and dislikes, homepages, and so on. If you are concerned with your privacy, you may not want to and do not have to do this.

You can use your user page to help you to use Wikipedia more effectively: to list "to do" information, works in progress, reminders, useful links, and so on. It's also good for trying out things (that is, as a personal ).

Another common use is to let people know about what you are doing on Wikipedia, and what you think about Wikipedia. So you might include current plans, your recent edits on Wikipedia, and your helpful ideas on how Wikipedia articles or policies should be changed. If you won't be editing Wikipedia for a while, put a note on your user page to let others know.

You might want to add quotations that you like, or a picture, or some of your favorite Wikipedia articles or images (freely licensed only – see the What can I not have on my user page section below), or the like. 

Others may also edit your user page, giving you a or leaving other images for you. In the event that your editing rights on Wikipedia are , a notice of this may be placed on your user page.

If you want to your contributions under an extra license or declare them all public domain, you may put a notice to this effect on your user page. Because of the large templates and long category names, some editors move the license templates to a subpage (see below). Whether you include a license statement or not, all your edits on Wikipedia are also licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License.

You may include one or more , such as . Wikipedian categories help Wikipedians with similar interests to meet and talk. They are like Wikiprojects, but are much less formal. Wikipedian categories should not overlap with article categories. It is important to include the word "Wikipedian" in such category names. Also, they should be categories within the general Wikipedian category. See also: . Many users include mentions of the languages they know (see ).

Many users like to add to their user pages. These are similar to the Babel templates but are usually more about what users do on Wikipedia, what their interests are, their political and religious beliefs, etc. Note that some userboxes also exist in user space, and a directory of them can be found .

You are welcome to include a link to your personal home page, although you should not include it with any promotional language.

Note: user pages are often reached through .

If you need more pages, you can make . More or less, you can have anything here that you might have on your user or user talk page.

Examples:

Generally, you should avoid a lot of content on your user page that is not about Simple Wikipedia. a hosting service, so your user page is not a personal homepage. Your page is about you as a Wikipedian. Examples of unrelated content include:



In general, if you have material that you do not want others to edit, or that is not suitable for Wikipedia, it should be placed on a personal web site. There are many free and low-cost web hosting, email, and weblog services which are a good alternative for content non Wikipedia content. You might also want to think about Wikia for wiki-style community collaboration.

The Wikipedia community is generally friendly and offers a lot of freedom in using these guidelines to regular editors. Particularly, community-building activities that are not strictly "on topic" may be allowed, especially when started by committed Wikipedians with good edit histories. At their best, such activities help us to build the community, and this helps to build the encyclopedia. But at the same time, if user page activity becomes disruptive to the community or gets in the way of the task of building an encyclopedia, it must be changed.

Redirecting your userpage to another page (other than your talk page or a subpage of your user page) is annoying for some people. Doing so makes it difficult to follow links to your userpage and thus to leave you messages or to look at your contributions. You could, of course, redirect the userpage for an older account of yours to the userpage of your current account.

Do not put your userpage or subpages, including work-in-progress articles, into categories used by Wikipedia articles. Be careful of templates and stub notices that put a work-in-progress article into categories. You can "quote" categories by adding a colon before "Category", like this: <nowiki></nowiki>. This turns it into an ordinary link. Templates and stub notices can be turned into links to themselves by putting tl| ("tl" followed by a pipe character) in front of their names, like this: <nowiki></nowiki>

While userpages and subpages can be used to make new content, this space is not meant to keep your version of disputed or previously deleted content forever. In other words, Wikipedia is . Private copies of pages that are being used only for long-term archival purposes may be .

Pages kept in userspace should not replace articles or Wikipedia space pages. If you find that your user subpage has become as useful as a normal article or project page, think about it into the proper namespace or merging it with other similar pages already existing there. You should never create links from a mainspace article to any userpage, nor should a userspace essay be used as the main source for any Wikipedia policy, guideline, practice, or concept.

Please do not include non-free images (images uploaded to Wikipedia without the permission of the copyright owner, "or under licenses that do not permit commercial use") on your user page or on any subpage thereof (this is official policy and the usual wide user page latitude does not apply, see for details). Non-free images found on a user page (including user talk pages) may be removed (you could replace it with a link to the image) from that page without warning and be deleted if not used in a Wikipedia article.



There is broad agreement that you may not include in your user space material that is likely to bring the project into disrepute, or which is likely to give widespread offence. is usually means user space as well as the encyclopaedia itself. You do have more freedom in user space than elsewhere, but remember: about it.

As a tradition, Wikipedia offers some freedom to users to use their user space as they see fit. However, pages in user space still do belong to the community:

In general it is considered polite to not make big changes to another's user page without their permission. Some users are fine with their user pages being edited, and may even have a note to that effect. Other users may object and ask you not to edit their user pages, and it is probably sensible to respect their requests. The best option is to draw their attention to the matter on their talk page and let them edit their user page themselves if they agree on a need to do so. In some cases a more experienced editor may make an important edit to your userpage, in which case that editor should leave a note on your talk page explaining why this was done. This should only be done for important reasons.

Policy does not prohibit users from removing comments from their own talk pages, though is preferred. Please note, though, that the removal of good-faith warnings, even though permitted, is often frowned upon.

If the community lets you know that they want you to delete some content from your user space, you should think about doing so — such content is only permitted with the consent of the community. After you've been here for a while, and written lots of great articles, the community may be more inclined to let you get away with it. You could move the content to another site, and link to it.

If you do not cooperate, the inappropriate content will be removed, either by editing the page (if only part of it is inappropriate), or by redirecting it to your main user page (if it is entirely inappropriate).

In some cases, your user subpage may be deleted, following a listing on , subject to .

In all except for the (where articles are created), it is possible to create a subpage of a "parent" page. So if a page is called "PAGE", a subpage of "PAGE" with the name "SUBPAGE" would be located at "PAGE/SUBPAGE". 

New editors and experienced Wikipedians can use subpages to their "user page" to work on templates and articles, test wikitext markup, and create new articles before moving them to the main Wikipedia space.

There are several common uses for user subpages: 

To link to a user subpage called ""Sandbox"" from , place the text
On your page, or use a with the same source. Make sure to experiment on your user page, "not" on this page! Do not forget the first forward slash or you will put the page in the as a regular article and will have to ask for if you save what you write (by tagging the page with ). If your user page does not have a subpage named "Sandbox", the link will appear to be red, showing that a page has no content, and if you just navigate away without saving any content the page will not be created and there is nothing to delete.

Sandboxes are useful for testing changes to pages, but once you are sure of yourself regarding an edit, you can just click on the "Show preview" button, and proof-read thoroughly. If you need help creating a user subpage, you can get assistance at .

You can easily ask for the deletion of any of your user subpages (or possibly your user page) by adding <nowiki>]]


</doc>
<doc id="56689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56689" title="Wikipedia:Introduction">
Wikipedia:Introduction


</doc>
<doc id="56690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56690" title="Template:Please leave this line alone">
Template:Please leave this line alone

<includeonly></includeonly>

Test changes

</doc>
<doc id="56716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56716" title="Template:Year nav">
Template:Year nav


</doc>
<doc id="56717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56717" title="Template:Ordinal">
Template:Ordinal

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="56718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56718" title="1367">
1367





</doc>
<doc id="56722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56722" title="939">
939





</doc>
<doc id="56725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56725" title="Contronym">
Contronym

A contronym is a word with two meanings. These two meaning are the opposite of each other.




</doc>
<doc id="56726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56726" title="Water heating">
Water heating

Water heating is a thermodynamic process using an energy source to heat water above its initial temperature. Typical domestic uses of hot water are for cooking, cleaning and bathing, and space heating. In industry both hot water and water heated to steam have many uses.

The most common energy sources for heating water are fossil fuels: natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, oil or sometimes solid fuels. These fuels may be consumed directly or by the use of electricity (which may derive from any of the above fuels or from nuclear or renewable sources). Alternative energy such as solar energy, heat pumps, hot water heat recycling, and sometimes geothermal power, may also be used as available, usually in combination with gas, oil or electricity.

Solar collectors for solar powered water heaters are installed outside dwellings, typically on the roof or nearby. Nearly all models are the direct-gain type. They consist of flat panels in which water circulates. 

In countries like Iceland and New Zealand, and other volcanic regions, water heating may be done using geothermal power, rather than combustion.



</doc>
<doc id="56738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56738" title="Couëron">
Couëron

Couëron is a city in France on the Atlantic Ocean near Nantes. About 18.000 people live in the city.


</doc>
<doc id="56740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56740" title="Room temperature">
Room temperature

Room temperature does not have an exact scientific definition. It means a temperature that is normal in rooms used by human beings. 

A comfortable room temperature depends on individual needs and other factors. According to the West Midlands Public Health Observatory (UK), 22 °C (71.6 °F) is the recommended living room temperature, and 18 °C (64.4 °F) is a good bedroom temperature.

However, this might not be true for countries found near the equator. As the temperature is higher, the room temperature is around 30°C (86 °F).

For scientific work, room temperature is taken to be about 20 to 25 degrees Celsius with an average of 23°C (about 73.4 degrees Fahrenheit (°F), 528 to 537 degrees Rankine (°R), or 293 to 298 Kelvins (K)). For numerical convenience, either 20 °C or 300 K is often used.

The progress and results of many scientific and industrial processes can sometimes depend on the temperature of the surroundings of the equipment. For example, a measurement of the charge of the electron does not depend upon the temperature of the test equipment. In this case, if scientists mention temperature at all, they usually only mention "room temperature", which means that what is being measured has not been cooled or heated. 


</doc>
<doc id="56741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56741" title="Kraftwerk">
Kraftwerk

Kraftwerk is a pop band from Germany that became famous in the late 1970s and 1980s for making electronic music. They used a synthesizer to make the rhythms and melodies in the song.

Kraftwerk made electronic music many years before other bands knew it would be popular. They paved the way for the MIDI and digital styles of music to become popular in the 1990s. Many of the sounds from songs such as "Computer Love", "The Robots",and "Trans Europe Express" can be heard sampled by a variety of bands on their current releases. Recently, some of Kraftwerk's original recording equipment was sold on eBay for astonishing amounts. Kraftwerk continues to have a faithful and much deserved following.



</doc>
<doc id="56743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56743" title="Cricket ball">
Cricket ball

A cricket ball is a hard, solid ball used to play cricket. In men's cricket the ball must weigh between 5.5 and 5.75 ounces (137.5 and 143.8 g) and measure between 8 13/16 and 9 in (220 and 225 mm) in circumference.


</doc>
<doc id="56746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56746" title="Baptist">
Baptist

Baptist is a word describing a tradition within Christianity and may also refer to individuals belonging to a Baptist church or a Baptist denomination. The tradition takes its name from the belief that followers of Jesus Christ should be placed in water to show their faith. Baptists do not practice infant baptism.

In 1639, Roger Williams began a Baptist church in Providence, Rhode Island and John Clarke began a Baptist church in Newport, Rhode Island. It is not clear which church opened first. Records for both churches are missing information.

Baptist churches do not have a central principal authority. Therefore, beliefs are not the same from one Baptist church to another, mainly beliefs that may be considered minor. However, on major issues, most are held in common among almost all Baptist churches.

Baptists share so-called "orthodox" Christian beliefs with most other moderate or conservative Christian denominations. Some of them are beliefs about one God; Jesus' death, burial, and bodily resurrection; the Trinity (the divinity of Jesus and the Holy Spirit, together with God the Father); the need for salvation; grace; and evangelism and missions.

There are over 90 million Baptists in the world in nearly 300,000 churches. There are about 47 million members in the United States. Other large populations of Baptists also exist in Asia, Africa and Latin America. There are 2.4 million Baptists in India, 2.3 million in Nigeria, 1.9 million in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and 1.5 million in Brazil.

In a poll in the 1990s, about 20% of Americans said they are Baptist.

Many people outside the community see them as Protestant, but some baptists do not. In their view, Baptists have existed separately since early church days. Those holding this view believe that Baptists have never been a part of the Roman Catholic Church, and that Baptists are not "protesting" against Catholicism. 

They also point out that Baptists have no connections with the Reformationists like Luther, Calvin, or Zwingli. Other Baptists accept the "Protestant" label as a category for churches who have similar religious views of "sola scriptura, sola fide," the priesthood of all believers and other positions that Luther or Calvin had in contrast to the Roman Catholic Church in the 1500s.

The tag: "denomination", is by some because of the autonomous system used by Baptist churches for control. Being a denomination is viewed by them as having a hierarchy instead of the Roman Catholic Church. Another reason for the rejection of the tag is the influence of the Restoration period on Baptist churches, which tore down denominational barriers. Other Baptists accept the tag. They feel that it does not lie or have any bad meanings. It is just used as a synonym for a Christian or religious group with common beliefs.

The tag: "Evangelical", is rejected by some fundamentalist Baptists who think that the term is not 'fundamentalist' enough. It is also rejected by some liberal Baptists who think that the term is too conservative. It is accepted by moderate Baptists believing in the revival in the United States in the 1700s called the First Great Awakening. Some Evangelicals also reject the tag: fundamentalist, because they think that it is too extreme.


</doc>
<doc id="56748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56748" title="Techno">
Techno

Techno is a form of electronic dance music that became popular in Detroit, Michigan during the mid-1980s. It was influenced by synthpop, funk, post-disco and futuristic fiction ideas that were important during the end of the Cold War in the United States at that time. Juan Atkins is generally thought to be the founder of Techno music. Detroit Techno first became successful locally and then became popular around the world in the 1990s. 

The word "techno" comes from "technology". Fans of Techno music are careful in their use of the word. They are careful not to confuse it with other types of music that are similar but different (for example house, trance, hardcore). At the same time, the word "techno" is commonly used when talking about all forms of electronic music and dance music, especially in the Americas and Australia. Despite the common usage of the term to refer to all electronic dance in general, techno is a specific genre with its own, distinguishable sound. By nature, techno tends to be highly repetitive, instrumentally-oriented music which follows a regular four-on-the-floor beat. The genre places a strong emphasis on rhythm, and techno tends to have a very beat-based sound.




</doc>
<doc id="56750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56750" title="Dog sled">
Dog sled

A dog sled is a sled that is pulled by sled dogs and can go over ice and snow. Dog sleds were first made by First Nations people in Canada before the English and French got there, because they had no horses so they used dogs to travel. They were also made by people in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia because it was also easier to travel with dogs in parts of those countries.

Racing dog sleds is a popular sport which a lot of people enjoy watching or actually going in the sleds to race. It is more popular in places where there is not much horse racing.


</doc>
<doc id="56751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56751" title="Multiset">
Multiset

A multiset (sometimes called a bag) is a concept from mathematics. In many ways, multisets are like sets. Certain items are either elements of that multiset, or they are not. However, multisets are different from sets: The same type of item can be in the multiset more than once. For this reason, mathematicians have defined a relation (function) that tells, how many copies of a certain type of item there are in a certain multiset. They call this "multiplicity". For example, in the multiset { "a", "a", "b", "b", "b", "c" }, the multiplicities of the members "a", "b", and "c" are respectively 2, 3, and 1. 

A multiset is illustrated by means of a histogram.

A multiset can also be considered an unordered tuple:

One of the simplest examples is the multiset of prime factors of a number "n". Here the underlying set of elements is the set of prime divisors of "n". For example the number "120" has the prime factorisation
which gives the multiset {2, 2, 2, 3, 5}.

Another is the multiset of solutions of an algebraic equation. A quadratic equation, for example, has two solutions. However, in some cases they are both the same number. Thus the multiset of solutions of the equation could be { 3, 5 }, or it could be { 4, 4 }. In the latter case it has a solution of multiplicity 2.



</doc>
<doc id="56752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56752" title="Category:Set theory">
Category:Set theory


</doc>
<doc id="56753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56753" title="Tom Brokaw">
Tom Brokaw

Thomas John Brokaw (born February 6, 1940 in Webster, South Dakota) is a popular American television journalist and is the former anchorman (host) of "NBC Nightly News with Tom Brokaw". His last appearance as anchorman was on December 1, 2004. In the later part of hosting "NBC Nightly News", the program became the most-watched news program in the United States. Brokaw has received many awards and honors.


</doc>
<doc id="56755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56755" title="Tuple">
Tuple

In mathematics, a tuple is a finite sequence of objects. Sometimes the finite sequence is also called an "ordered list". Each of the objects in the list has a certain type. A tuple consisting of "n" entries is called an n-tuple. Tuples are used to describe mathematical objects that are made of certain, well-defined components. They are also used very frequently with databases. 
Tuples are different from sets:

In other words, tuples are like ordered multisets.


</doc>
<doc id="56756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56756" title="Manure">
Manure

Manure is organic matter used as fertilizer in agriculture. Manures improve the fertility of the soil by adding organic matter and nutrients, such as nitrogen that is trapped by bacteria in the soil. Higher organisms then feed on the fungi and bacteria in a chain of life.

The term "manure" was used for inorganic fertilizers in the past, but this usage is now very rare.

The word manure came from Middle English "manuren" meaning "to cultivate land," and initially from French "main-oeuvre" = "hand work" alluding to the work which involved manuring land.

There are two classes of manures in soil management: green manures and animal manures. Compost is distinguished from manure in that it is the "decomposed" remnants of organic materials (which may, nevertheless, include manure).

Most animal manure is feces—excrement (variously called "droppings" or "crap" etc) of plant-eating mammals (herbivores) and plant material (often straw) which has been used as bedding for animals and thus is heavily contaminated with their feces and urine.

Green manures are crops grown for the express purpose of plowing them under. In so doing, fertility is increased through the nutrients and organic matter that are returned to the soil. 

Manure has been used for centuries as a fertilizer for farming, as it is rich in nitrogen and other nutrients which facilitate the growth of plants. Liquid manure from pig/hog operations is usually knifed (injected) directly into the soil to reduce the unpleasant odors. Manure from hogs and cattle is spread on fields using a manure spreader. Due to the relatively lower level of proteins in grasses, which herbivores eat, cattle manure has a milder smell than the dung of carnivores—for example, elephant dung is practically odorless. However, due to the quantity of manure applied to fields, odor can be a problem in some agricultural regions. Poultry droppings are harmful to plants when fresh but after a period of composting are valuable fertilizers.

The dried manure of animals has been used as fuel throughout history. Dried manure (usually known as dung) of cows was, and still is, an important fuel source in countries such as India, while camel dung may be used in treeless regions such as deserts. On the Oregon Trail, pioneering families collected large quantities of "buffalo chips" in lieu of scarce firewood. It has been used for many purposes, in cooking fires and to combat the cold desert nights.

Another use of manure is to make paper. This has been done with dung from elephants where it is a small industry in Africa and Asia, and also horses, llamas, and kangaroos. Other than the llama, these animals are not ruminants and thus tend to pass plant fibres undigested in their dung.




</doc>
<doc id="56759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56759" title="Nutrient">
Nutrient

A nutrient is either a chemical element or compound used in an organism's metabolism or physiology. A nutrient is essential to an organism if it cannot be produced by the organism and must be obtained from a food source.










</doc>
<doc id="56760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56760" title="Histogram">
Histogram

A histogram is a concept from statistics. It is a graphical display that tells about the distribution of the samples involved. They are commonly a picture made from a table with many categories. The table tells how many samples there are in each category.
The word "histogram" is derived from "histos" and "gramma" in Greek. "Histos" means "web" or "mast". "Gramma" means "drawing", "record" or "writing". A histogram of something is therefore, etymologically speaking, a drawing of the web of this something. 

The histogram is one of the seven basic tools of quality control, which also include the Pareto chart, check sheet, control chart, cause-and-effect diagram, flowchart, and scatter diagram. 

A generalization of the histogram is kernel smoothing techniques. This will construct a smooth probability density function from the supplied data.


</doc>
<doc id="56761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56761" title="Green manure">
Green manure

Typically, a green manure crop is grown for a specific period, and then plowed under and incorporated into the soil. Green manures usually perform several functions, that include soil improvement and soil protection:


Historically, the practice of green manuring can be traced back to the fallow cycle of crop rotation, which was used to allow soils to recover.


Organic farming relies on soil health and cycling of nutrients through the soil using natural processes, such as the addition of animal manures. If animal manures are not available, in a stockless rotation, green manures perform a vital function of fertilization.



</doc>
<doc id="56762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56762" title="Normal distribution">
Normal distribution

\; \exp\left(-\frac{\left(x-\mu\right)^2}{2\sigma^2} \right) \!</math>|
The normal distribution is a probability distribution. It is also called Gaussian distribution because it was discovered by Carl Friedrich Gauss. The normal distribution is a continuous probability distribution. It is very important in many fields of science. Normal distributions are a family of distributions of the same general form. These distributions differ in their "location" and "scale" parameters: the mean ("average") of the distribution defines its location, and the standard deviation ("variability") defines the scale.

The standard normal distribution (also known as the Z distribution) is the normal distribution with a mean of zero and a variance of one (the green curves in the plots to the right). It is often called the bell curve because the graph of its probability density looks like a bell.

Many values follow a normal distribution. These include:



</doc>
<doc id="56763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56763" title="Biomass">
Biomass

Biomass is a basic term in ecology, and in the energy production industry.

In ecology, biomass means the accumulation of living matter. It is the total living biological material in a given area or of a biological community or group. Biomass is measured by weight, or by dry weight, per given area (usually measured per square metre or square kilometer).

In the energy industry, it refers to biological material which can be used as fuel or for industrial production. Biomass includes plant matter grown for use as biofuel, and also includes plant or animal matter used for production of fibres, chemicals or heat. Biomass may also include biodegradable wastes which can be burnt as fuel. It excludes organic material which has been transformed by geological processes into substances such as coal or petroleum. It is usually measured by dry weight. 

The term biomass is especially useful for plants, where some internal structures may not always be considered living tissue, such as the wood (secondary xylem) of a tree. 

Biofuels include bioethanol, biobutanol, biodiesel & biogas. 

Biomass is grown from several plants, including switchgrass, hemp, corn, poplar, willow and sugarcane. The particular plant used is usually not very important to the end products, but it does affect the processing of the raw material. 
Though biomass is a renewable fuel, its use can still contribute to global warming. This happens when the natural carbon equilibrium is disturbed; for example by deforestation or urbanization of green sites.

Biomass is part of the carbon cycle. Carbon from the atmosphere is converted into biological matter by photosynthesis. On decay or combustion the carbon goes back into the atmosphere. This happens over a relatively short timescale and plant matter used as a fuel can be constantly replaced by planting for new growth. Therefore a reasonably stable level of atmospheric carbon results from its use as a fuel.

Although fossil fuels have their origin in ancient biomass, they are not considered biomass by the generally accepted definition because they contain carbon that has been 'out' of the carbon cycle for a very long time. Their combustion therefore disturbs the carbon dioxide content in the atmosphere.

Other uses of biomass, besides fuel:

Plastics from biomass, like some recently developed to dissolve in seawater, are made the same way as petroleum-based plastics, are actually cheaper to manufacture and meet or exceed most performance standards. But they lack the same water resistance as conventional plastics. 

The most successful animal, in terms of biomass, is the Antarctic krill, "Euphausia superba", with a biomass of probably over 500 million tons, roughly twice the total biomass of humans. 

This is a summary of biomass data.



</doc>
<doc id="56765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56765" title="Template:Probability distribution">
Template:Probability distribution


</doc>
<doc id="56766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56766" title="Template:ProbDistributions">
Template:ProbDistributions


</doc>
<doc id="56768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56768" title="Variance">
Variance

The variance in probability theory and statistics is a way to measure how much something changes. For example, temperature has more variance in Moscow than in Hawaii. More exactly, variance describes how much a random variable differs from its expected value. The variance is defined as the average of the squares of the differences between the individual (observed) and the expected value. That means it is always positive. 

The variance is not simply the average difference from the expected value. The standard deviation, which is the square root of the variance and comes closer to the average difference, also is not simply the average difference. Variance and standard deviation are used because it makes the mathematics easier when adding two random variables together.

In accountancy, a variance refers to the difference between the budget for a cost, and the actual cost.



</doc>
<doc id="56769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56769" title="Tarzan's Treehouse">
Tarzan's Treehouse

Tarzan's Treehouse is a walk-through attraction in Disneyland located in Anahiem, California. It was originally called the Swiss Family Treehouse. The treehouse explores Disney character Tarzan's past. The tree although fake is considered by Disney imagineers a real species or Disneyodendron eximus which translates to "out of the ordinary Disney tree". The tree has 1,400 branches and 300,000 polyethlyne leaves. The tree is covered in live Spanish moss.


</doc>
<doc id="56770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56770" title="Adam Małysz">
Adam Małysz

Adam Małysz (born 3 December 1977 in Wisła, Poland) is a Polish ski jumper. He has four Olympic medals (3 silver, 1 bronze). His longest jump was 230,5 meters. 






</doc>
<doc id="56776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56776" title="Salome">
Salome

Salome or Salomé (Hebrew: שלומית Shlomit), the Daughter of Herodias (c AD 14 - between 62 and 71), like Dismas, or the various names of the Three Magi, is a name given to a character in the New Testament, one whose name is not given there itself. She is, however, an entirely historical person, whose name is preserved in non-biblical literature. In scholarly works, she tends to be referred to as the Daughter of Herodias.

The name "Salome" is given to the stepdaughter of Herod Antipas (unnamed in the Gospels of Matthew and Mark) in Josephus' "Jewish Antiquities" (Book XVIII, Chapter 5, 4):Herodias, [...], was married to Herod, the son of Herod the Great, who was born of Mariamne, the daughter of Simon the high priest, who had a daughter, Salome; after whose birth Herodias took upon her to
confound the laws of our country, and divorced herself from her husband while he was alive, and was married to Herod, her husband's brother by the father's side, he was tetrarch of Galilee; but her daughter Salome was married to Philip, the son of Herod, and tetrarch of Trachonitis; and as he died childless,
Aristobulus, the son of Herod, the brother of Agrippa, married her; they had three sons, Herod, Agrippa, and Aristobulus;

Despite the early date of this account, she was not consistently called Salome until the nineteenth century, when Gustave Flaubert (following Josephus) referred to her as Salome in his play Herodias (1876).Salome was also a Belly Dancer.

According to Mark 6:21-29, Salome was the stepdaughter of Herod Antipas, and danced before Herod and her mother Herodias at the occasion of Herod's birthday, and by doing so caused the death of John the Baptist. The New Testament suggests that Salome caused John to be executed because of his complaints that Herod's marriage to Herodias was adulterous; and that Herodias put her up to the demand that John be executed, something the king was initially reluctant to do. 

Some ancient Greek translations of Mark read "Herod's daughter Herodias" (rather than "daughter of the said Herodias"). To scholars using these ancient texts, both mother and daughter had the same name. However, scholars using the Latin Vulgate Bible (which translates the passage as it is above) did not confuse the two; thus western Church Fathers tended to refer to Salome as "Herodias's daughter" or just "the girl". Nevertheless, because she is otherwise unnamed in the Bible, the idea that both mother and daughter were named Herodias gained some currency in early modern Europe. 

This Salome is not the same Salome who is said to be a witness to the Crucifixion of Jesus in Mark 15:40. (see Salome (disciple)).jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjfriiaofieofhfjfjskdlks

The story above has been adapted to various forms of art. Innumerable paintings about it exist. There is a play by Oscar Wilde. Operas about it have been composed by Richard Strauss and Jules Massenet. Ballets by Florent Schmit and Flemming Flindt. Various films have also been made between 1918 and 2006. 



</doc>
<doc id="56787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56787" title="Winchester College">
Winchester College

Winchester College is a well-known boys' school. It is an example of a British public school. The school is located in the city of Winchester in Hampshire, England. Its official name is Collegium Sanctae Mariae prope Wintoniam (or Collegium Beatae Mariae Wintoniensis prope Winton), or St Mary's College near Winchester. The school is commonly just called "Winchester". Winchester has existed for over six hundred years. It has the longest unbroken history of any school in England. It is one of the original nine English public schools as defined by the Public Schools Act 1868. 

Winchester College was founded in 1382 by William of Wykeham, Bishop of Winchester and Chancellor to Richard II. The first seventy students entered the school in 1394. It was founded with New College, Oxford. Winchester was built to get students ready to attend New College. This was the model for Eton College and King's College, Cambridge 50 years later and for Westminster School, Christ Church, Oxford and Trinity College, Cambridge in Tudor times.

The headmaster is currently Dr Ralph Townsend, formerly of Sydney Grammar School and Oundle School.



</doc>
<doc id="56788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56788" title="Buffy the Vampire Slayer (movie)">
Buffy the Vampire Slayer (movie)

Buffy the Vampire Slayer is a 1992 comedy horror movie about a cheerleader (Kristy Swanson) chosen by fate to fight and kill vampires. The movie is a light parody. It goes against the clichés of typical horror movies. The movie led to a darker and much more popular TV series of the same name. The television series starred Sarah Michelle Gellar and was created and produced by screenwriter Joss Whedon. Whedon often said how the television series was more like his vision than the movie. When the movie was first released, it was moderately successful and received mixed reviews from critics.



</doc>
<doc id="56789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56789" title="Fran Rubel Kuzui">
Fran Rubel Kuzui

Fran Rubel Kuzui is an American movie director and producer. She is best known as the director of the 1992 "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" movie, which was made into the television series of the same name.


</doc>
<doc id="56790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56790" title="Roseanne Barr">
Roseanne Barr

Roseanne Cherrie Barr (born November 3 1952 in Salt Lake City Utah) is an Emmy Award-winning American actress, writer, and comedian. She has also been known as "Roseanne Arnold" and "Roseanne Thomas". For several years in the late 1990s and early 2000s, she was known simply as Roseanne, but by 2005 had resumed referring to herself by her maiden name, Roseanne Barr. She is best known for playing "Roseanne Conner" on the television series "Roseanne".





</doc>
<doc id="56795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56795" title="Template:Country alias Poland">
Template:Country alias Poland

Poland

</doc>
<doc id="56796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56796" title="Template:Country flag alias Poland">
Template:Country flag alias Poland

Flag of Poland.svg

</doc>
<doc id="56797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56797" title="BI-LO (Australia)">
BI-LO (Australia)

Bi-Lo is a supermarket with 214 shops all over Australia. It used to have shops in Western Australia called Newmart. It converted all its stores to Coles Supermarkets in 2006 and 2007.

John Weekes started Bi-Lo towards the end of the 1970s in the city of Adelaide in South Australia with three shops. It was called "Bi-Lo" because it sells food and everyday articles at relatively cheap prices.


</doc>
<doc id="56802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56802" title="Template:Lorem ipsum/doc">
Template:Lorem ipsum/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

This template outputs lorem ipsum filler text. It takes three parameters: the number of paragraphs to generate, paragraph prefix, and paragraph suffix. There are 10 distinct paragraphs. After this the text will be repeated.

For example, codice_1 generates:

Note that whitespace is important in the last two parameters, as codice_1 results in:

The first paragraph is from the [ original template] for backwards compatibility, the rest was generated by a script.
<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="56807" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56807" title="Sucrose">
Sucrose

Sucrose (common name: table sugar, also called saccharose) is a disaccharide (glucose + fructose) with the molecular formula CHO. Its systematic name is α-D-glucopyranosyl-(1→2)-β-D-fructofuranose. It is best known for its role in human nutrition and is formed by plants but not by higher organisms.

Pure sucrose is most often prepared as a fine, white, odorless crystalline powder with a pleasing, sweet taste. 



</doc>
<doc id="56808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56808" title="Disaccharide">
Disaccharide

A disaccharide is a sugar (a carbohydrate) composed of two monosaccharides. It is formed when two sugars are joined together and a molecule of water is removed. For example, milk sugar (lactose) is made from glucose and galactose whereas cane sugar (sucrose) is made from glucose and fructose.

Maltose and cellobiose are hydrolysis products of the polysaccharides, starch and cellulose, respectively.


</doc>
<doc id="56811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56811" title="Biological hazard">
Biological hazard

A biological hazard, or biohazard, is anything coming from living organisms (ie. pollen, fungi, animals, insects, bacteria and viruses) that could be a threat to someone's health. It is represented by ☣, the biohazard symbol, which is used everywhere in the world. When people see this sign they know to take precautions, and to follow proper conduct for science labs.

There are four biosafety levels made by the Center of Disease Control. These are used in laboratories so only people who have the right skills can enter. Different levels mean scientists must wear different uniforms and take special care when dealing with dangerous things like viruses.

Biosafety Level 1 The viruses handled in BSL-1 are not very dangerous and usually only cause mild sickness. Diseases in BSL-1 include chicken pox and some E-Coli strains. People in BSL-1 have to wash their hands with soap, wear gloves, and put waste materials in specially-marked bins.

Biosafety Level 2 BSL-2 is filled with slightly more hazourdous diseases than BSL-1. They have to take more safety precautions has a result. Hepatitis, influenza, HIV / AIDS, and salmonella are handled here.
Biosafety Level 3 BSL-3 is for diseases that may kill but are less deadly than those in Level 4, SARS and yellow fever. A lot of them are airborne, and the lab must be in an closed off area in case of an incident.

Biosafety Level 4 BSL-4 is for very hazardous diseases that kill many people and are hard to treat. BSL-4 workers must be careful and alert at all times and wear suits with special air filters. A lot of hemorrhagic fevers are dealt with in BSL-4, like Ebola, Marburg, and Lassa Virus.


</doc>
<doc id="56812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56812" title="Petri dish">
Petri dish

A petri dish is a small dish shaped like a cylinder. Scientists use it to grow cells from animals, fungus, and diseases so they can study them. They are usually made of glass or plastic. The glass ones can be used again if they are heated at 160°F. Sometimes people fill them with agar, which helps cells grow. These are called 'agar plates'. Many people use them in science classes at school. They have lids so germs in the air can not get into them, or "contaminate" them, and ruin the experiment.


</doc>
<doc id="56815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56815" title="IGA Australia">
IGA Australia

Independent Grocers of Australia or (IGA) for short, is the largest independent supermarket group in Australia. It is part of the Independent Grocers Association which has shops all over the world. Each "IGA" shop is run by the local shopkeeper unlike big companies such as Woolworths and Coles which runs all of their shops across the country. A company supplies all "IGA" shops around the country and controls the use of the "IGA" name but does not own every one of each shop. The independent shopkeepers and their shops claim to be "Local Heroes". There are over 1000 shops and three sub-brands.

IGA in Australia also has the Black & Gold brand name product range which first came about in 1980, the first such brand name product range to enter the independent food shops that are now called "IGA". Now, it also has a premium brand name range also called "IGA" and a healthy range of products called "IGA Way of Life".

"Metcash Trading Limited" is the company behind "IGA" and supplies the shops. "Davids Holdings", Metcash's old name, brought the "IGA" name to Australia in 1988 with just 10 shops. Now, it has grown from 10 shops to over 1000 shops in less than 20 years.

The stores also have the Community Chest program, where they donate profits to local charities.



</doc>
<doc id="56816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56816" title="Chelmsford (borough)">
Chelmsford (borough)

Chelmsford is a borough in the county of Essex in England. It has the same name as its main town of Chelmsford, the county town of Essex.


</doc>
<doc id="56821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56821" title="Communication Studies">
Communication Studies

Communication Studies is a college or university area of study involving the study of communication. Students learn about speech and different types of media.


</doc>
<doc id="56822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56822" title="Belote">
Belote

Belote is a French 32 card trick-taking game. This game requires four players divided into two teams. There are many kinds of belote : "belote," "belote coinchée," and "belote avec annonce". All of them come from a Dutch game, played since 1600.

The dealer may choose to shuffle the deck. The previous dealer, on the left, must cut the deck. He must deal the all deck in three time (3+2+3).

Once the card are dealt, players start to bet on the number of point. To bet, the player need to tell the trump he wants, and bet at least 10 point higher than the previous player. The first player have to bet at least 80 , half of all the point. If a player have King and queen from the trump color, the team get 20 bonus points.
Even though there is only 4 color in the game, there is 6 kind of trump: Clubs ♣ Diamonds ♦ Hearts ♥ Spades ♠ "No trump" "All trumps".
When a player chooses "no trump" or "all trump", he must choose a color. the points of this color will be count as trump, all the other will be count as No trump.

Every kind of belote share some basic rules:

In every belote game points are counted depending on the card and their trump status then:

Trump : J=20, 9=14, A=11 10=10, K=4, Q=3, 8=0, 7=0
Non-trump : A=11, 10=10, K=4, Q=3, J=2, 9=0, 8=0, 7=0

The basic strategy of this game is to count the trump cards. But it is also recommend to count all the other color, the deck is small, only 32 cards.

Betting is the only way to communicate with a team mate, that is why even if a hand is weak, betting will help a fellow teammate to bet or play.

A team will have to play a defending strategy if they have less trump than the other team. The only rules with a defensive game is to save every point. One should not expect more than one trick for each colors. 

The usual strategy for the attacking team is to try make the opponent lose their trumps, so they will not be able to cut the other trick. Once it is done they may start to think about trying to get the ace or 10 card. There is only one way to get an ace: to cut it. That is why whenever a team mate is about to take the current trick, someone should play the colour in which someone has one less card. To get a ten someone may play an ace at the second trick or cut it.



</doc>
<doc id="56827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56827" title="Monosaccharide">
Monosaccharide

Monosaccharides are the simplest form of carbohydrates. They consist of one sugar and are usually colorless, water-soluble, crystalline solids. Some monosaccharides have a sweet taste. 

Examples of monosaccharides include glucose (dextrose), fructose, galactose, and ribose. Monosaccharides are the building blocks of disaccharides like sucrose (common sugar) and polysaccharides (such as cellulose and starch). Further, each carbon atom that supports a hydroxyl group (except for the first and last) is chiral, giving rise to a number of isomeric forms all with the same chemical formula. For instance, galactose and glucose are both aldohexoses, but they have different chemical and physical properties.


</doc>
<doc id="56830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56830" title="Lactose">
Lactose

Lactose is a disaccharide that consists of galactose and glucose molecules. Lactose makes up around 2-8% of the solids in milk. The name comes from the Latin word for milk, plus the -ose ending used to name sugars. Lactose is found in milk products.

Infant mammals are fed on by milk from their mothers. To digest it an enzyme called lactase cleaves the lactose into its two subunits glucose and galactose for absorption.



</doc>
<doc id="56831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56831" title="Glycogen">
Glycogen

Glycogen (commonly known as animal starch although this name is inaccurate) is a polysaccharide that is the principal storage form of glucose in animal cells. 

Glycogen is found in the form of granules in the cytosol in many cell types, and plays an important role in the glucose cycle. Glycogen forms an energy reserve that can be quickly mobilized to meet a sudden need for glucose, but one that is less compact than the energy reserves of triglycerides. Only the glycogen stored in the liver can be made accessible to other organs. 




</doc>
<doc id="56838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56838" title="Pollutant">
Pollutant

Pollutants are compounds which are dangerous to the environment.

They can also be harmful to humans in the long-term range. They come from mineral and fossil sources or are produced by humans themselves.

Many pollutants have a poisonous effect on the body. Carbon monoxide is an example of a substance which is damaging to humans. This compound is taken up in the body instead of oxygen. That makes the body and in severe cases may lead to death.

Some pollutants became dangerous by reaction with other naturally occurring compounds. The oxides of nitrogen and sulfur are released from impurities in fossil fuels when they are burnt. They react with water vapor in the atmosphere to become acid rain. Acid rain damages buildings and makes lakes unable to support marine life, which causes fish and water plants to die.



</doc>
<doc id="56839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56839" title="Carbon monoxide">
Carbon monoxide

Carbon monoxide, also known as "coal gas", with the chemical formula CO, is a colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas. It consists of one carbon atom covalently bonded to one oxygen atom. It is made when carbon compounds burn and there is not enough oxygen. It is a good fuel and burns in air with a blue flame, making carbon dioxide. It is very toxic, but it is useful for modern technology as well. 

The most important use for carbon monoxide in industry is making iron from iron ore. The carbon monoxide takes the oxygen from the iron ore when heated in a large oven called a blast furnace. Liquid metal iron is left behind. The carbon monoxide turns into carbon dioxide.

Carbon monoxide is so very useful so lots of ways of making it have been discovered. Normally we burn coke at high temperature with not enough oxygen. The chemical equation for this is:

It can be also made by blowing hot steam through red-hot crushed coke

Carbon monoxide can be used as heating fuel because it burns easily into carbon dioxide. It can also be used as so-called "synthesis gas" for making man-made gasoline in the Fischer-Tropsch process.




</doc>
<doc id="56844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56844" title="Schweinfurt">
Schweinfurt

Schweinfurt is a city in Franconia. The population is about 50,000. Larger, nearby cities are Würzburg and Bamberg


</doc>
<doc id="56845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56845" title="Falco">
Falco

Falco (born February 19, 1957 in Vienna, Austria as Johann (Hans) Hölzel, and died on February 6, 1998 in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic) was an Austrian pop singer. His breakthrough was "Der Kommissar", which beat top positions in international charts. This song and his first two albums were produced by Robert Ponger.

His song "Rock me Amadeus" has been the one and only German-speaking song reaching no.1 on the US charts. From 1985 to 1988 he produced 3 albums with the Dutch Production Team Bolland & Bolland. "Falco 3" became his most successful record reaching number 3 of the US Longplay Charts. 

In 1985, Falco also had his 3rd No.1 hit "Jeanny" and in 1986 his 4th - "Coming Home (Jeanny Part 2)".

Unsuccessful albums like "Data de Groove" (produced by Ponger again) followed.
In 1988 he married Isabella Vitkovic, one year later, in 1989, they separated. Ponger and the Bollands produced all of the albums that were released in his life-span.
To stay tuned Falco recorded many techno songs and worked with different producers for his last album.

He did not survive his comeback: The successful album "Out of the dark (into the light)" was released after Falco's death.


</doc>
<doc id="56849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56849" title="Gabriel Pascal">
Gabriel Pascal

Gabriel Pascal (4 June 1894 – 6 July 1954) was a Hungarian movie producer and director.

Gabriel Pascal was born in Transylvania (which is now part of Romania) in 1894. Pascal is best known for having turned some of the best plays by the famous Irish playwright George Bernard Shaw into successful movies. His most famous movie made from one of Shaw's plays was "Pygmalion" in 1938. "Pygmalion" tells the story of a bet that two rich men made over whether one of them, Professor Higgins, could turn a poor uneducated girl into a sophisticated lady. The movie was so successful that after Gabriel Pascal died it was made into a huge Broadway musical called "My Fair Lady", and amazingly this musical was then made into another movie. So "Pygmalion" was first a play, then a movie based on the play, then a play based on the movie, and then a new play based on the movie made from the old play. It is therefore quite a remarkable history and it was Gabriel Pascal's idea to make the play a musical, though he did not live long enough to do it himself.

Gabriel Pascal invented his name and no one seems to know his real one. He claimed to have memories of being rescued by Gypsies from a burning building when he was a tiny child and that the Gypsies taught him to beg, steal, and do acrobatic tricks, but no one knows if this is true. It is unclear what parts of his fabulous account of his childhood are true as there are no formal records of him prior to the age of 17 when he was enlisted in military school in Holics, Hungary, by a mysterious Catholic priest. Gabriel Pascal, who was decidedly unfit for military life, became interested in theater and studied at the Academy of the Hofburg Theater in Vienna. Later his interest expanded into the newly burgeoning cinema and he made films in Germany and Italy with sporadic success.

Pascal had one son, Peter, conceived in Germany during the delirium of a fever with his landlady's sister Elsie. Unable to care even for himself, Pascal fled to Holland. After WWII ended, at last on his feet with the success of "Pygmalion" and "Major Barbara", Pascal rushed to Germany to search for his son Peter, but he was listed among the missing Hitler Youth. Elsie had been killed by a bomb.

As a young man, Pascal found a job tending horses in Hungary. Leading the horses through the forest to a stream each day, Pascal developed the habit of riding bareback naked through the Hungarian countryside. One day he accidentally rode stark naked through the outdoor set of a silent movie in production and was "discovered." The film's director asked him to repeat the ride for the cameras and he joined the group. Soon he was making his own movies.

Pascal had another auspicious encounter when he was young while walking along the shore of the Mediterranean. An old man, George Bernard Shaw, was swimming naked holding onto a buoy. A conversation ensued and Shaw dared the young Pascal on the shore to take off his clothes and join him in the water. He was impressed when Pascal immediately did so and this began their friendship. Shaw was impressed with Pascal's youthful enthusiasm for art and his bravado and invited him to come visit him one day when he was entirely broke. This chance meeting was to play a major role in Pascal's later career.

Pascal began his producing career making silent movies in Italy for German distribution through UFA Studios in Berlin. His directorial debut was "Populi Morituri" in which he also starred. He later produced horror movies in Germany. His most famous was "Unholy Tales" in 1932. It was an anthology of short spooky stories, including some by Edgar Allan Poe, tied together by the adventures of a black cat and is considered by some to be a forgotten horror classic.

In 1933, during a trip to Hollywood, Pascal was contacted by Princess Norina Matchabelli about a film project based on the teachings of her guru Meher Baba. Pascal got very caught up in this project, bringing movie writers Hy Kraft and Karl Vollmöller into helping him work up treatments and even making a trip to India to discuss the project further with Meher Baba. By the time Pascal arrived in India, however, Meher Baba did not seem in any hurry to complete the film, saying it could wait and inviting Pascal to live with him in India. Most ordinary men would have been discouraged, but Pascal took energetically to the austere life of an eastern ascetic, even shedding his western garb for eastern clothing. He took a liking to Meher Baba and maintained a correspondence with him all of his life. Meher Baba nicknamed Pascal "Phoenix" and alternately "Panther." 

Pascal remained in contact with his guru Meher Baba right up to the end of his life and met with him in person one last time in New York in 1952. Even in this final meeting there was mention of the film that Pascal had agreed to try to make for Baba.

In time, however, Pascal's desire to make his mark on cinema returned and Pascal took a ship back to America penniless but undaunted. He landed in San Francisco where he spent some time deciding what to do next. Then it struck him to approach George Bernard Shaw (the most famous living playwright in the English speaking world at the time), whom Pascal had met auspiciously many years earlier. During that earlier meeting Shaw, who had been impressed with the young Pascal's passion for art and cinema, had told him to pay him a visit when he was entirely penniless. Pascal was now exactly that. He then sought out Shaw, first by going to N.Y. hidden in the toilet of the train, then convincing a sea captain to give him a lift to England.

Somehow he did convince Shaw to give him the rights to his plays, beginning with "Pygmalion" (1938), which was an enormous international hit, both critically and financially. Pascal followed up "Pygmalion" with "Major Barbara" (1941) which he directed as well as produced. "Major Barbara" was filmed in London during the bombing by the Nazis. During air raids the crew and cast had to dodge into bomb shelters. Pascal never stopped the production and the film was completed on schedule. But Pascal became more and more extravagant, finally losing his credibility with "Caesar and Cleopatra" (1945) which was the most expensive British movie ever made at that time and a terrible financial and critical flop, although it is more highly regarded today. Pascal famously insisted on importing sand from Egypt to achieve the right cinematic colors for this extravaganza. Shaw had become more difficult to work with also. After the success of "Pygmalion", which was shortened in its transition from stage to screen, as plays generally are, he increasingly refused to let his plays be cut. The result was that "Major Barbara" and "Caesar and Cleopatra" were not only filmed virtually complete, but with additional scenes by Shaw himself. Each of the two films ran over two hours.

Pascal did manage to produce one more movie, "Androcles and the Lion", in 1952. By this time he was increasingly sick with cancer of the liver.

In spring of 1954, in New York City, just before his passing Pascal had planned a trip to India to see Meher Baba one last time. He was having an affair and divorcing his wife at the time. One day he impulsively wrote on a piece of hotel stationery to his mistress, "If I die on my trip to India I leave my entire estate to you." He signed and dated it before two witnesses, a cook and a maid in the hotel who did not speak English but only Chinese. This was an absurd gesture since Pascal was totally in debt. He died within a short time of this letter in July 1954, and within two years of his death the musical "My Fair Lady", which Pascal had managed to retain an option on by borrowing money from a Baba follower named Margaret Scott, opened on Broadway. Thus, soon after his death, his estate, which had been worth nothing on his deathbed, grew to an estimated value of two million dollars. There was a large court battle in which his wife Valerie (who he was not fully divorced from at the time of his death) and the mistress fought over his estate. His odd last will and testament on the hotel stationery was entered as evidence in support of his mistress and the case was well-publicized. Several Meher Baba followers were involved in his life at the end including Harold Rudd who testified at his trial. The result of the trial was an even split of Pascal's royalties from "My Fair Lady" between the mistress and Pascal's estranged wife, each receiving well over one million dollars in settlement. His wife Valerie attempted to pay back the borrowed option money to Margaret Scott, but by the time the settlement came through Mrs. Scott had fallen from a New York apartment window to her death. Valerie therefore paid the money to Margaret's daughter instead.

Pascal is best remembered as one of the big Hungarian movie producers, like the famous Alexander Korda. He was the only producer ever to have major movie deals with seven separate countries on three continents: Hungary, Italy, Germany, China, India, England, and the US. He was also the only man to ever convince George Bernard Shaw to adjust his scripts to the new medium of cinema, gaining concessions from Shaw that no other man could. Pascal even invented the famous line for Pygmalion, later appearing in the theatrical and film versions of "My Fair Lady," "The rain in Spain stays mainly in the plain" and Shaw, by now publicly referring to Pascal as a "genius," wrote the line into the script. He was one of the most extravagant men of his time, named in 1938 as one of the world's most famous men by "Time" magazine along with Adolf Hitler. He is less known for his deep interest in the spiritual and his boundless enthusiasm for art as a direct and honest route to God. He is even less known for his lifelong devotion to spiritual master Meher Baba. His life is well documented in the beautifully written biography by his wife Valerie, "The Disciple and His Devil," published by McGraw-Hill in 1970 and republished by iUniverse in 1984. After Pascal's death, Valerie married the famous publisher and philanthropist George T. Delacorte Jr. and spent the rest of her life supporting charitable foundations under the name Valerie Delacorte.



</doc>
<doc id="56858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56858" title="McLaren">
McLaren

Vodafone McLaren Mercedes (McLaren Racing Limited) is a Formula 1 racing team. McLaren was started by Bruce McLaren in 1963. McLaren's current drivers are Jenson Button and Lewis Hamilton. Jenson Button was the 2009 World Champion, and Lewis Hamilton won the championship the year before (2008) with McLaren.

McLaren also make some other cars at its Woking factory, like the Mercedes McLaren SLR supercar.


</doc>
<doc id="56870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56870" title="Haylie Duff">
Haylie Duff

Haylie Katherine Duff (born February 19 1985) is an American actress and singer. She is best known for her supporting role on the television series "7th Heaven". She is the sister of Hilary Duff.

Duff was born in Houston, Texas. Her mother, Susan Duff, is a producer. Robert Erhard Duff, Haylie's father, lives at the family home in Houston. Haylie is two and a half years older than her sister.

Duff wrote or co-wrote several songs on two of her sister Hilary's albums, "Metamorphosis" (2003), "Hilary Duff" (2004) and the song, "Gypsy Woman", on Hilary's 4th album, "Dignity". She has also done many songs for different soundtracks with her sister. 







</doc>
<doc id="56872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56872" title="20th Century Fox">
20th Century Fox

Twentieth (20th) Century Fox Film Corporation (known from 1935 to 1985 as Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation) is a large American company that makes movies ("motion picture studio"). It is located in the Century City area of Los Angeles, California, USA, just west of Beverly Hills. The studio is a subsidiary of News Corporation, the media conglomerate controlled by Rupert Murdoch.

Twentieth Century Fox was formed in 1935 when Fox Film Corporation and Twentieth Century Pictures joined together to form the company. 20th Century Fox Television is a part of the company that makes television series.




</doc>
<doc id="56873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56873" title="Marquette, Michigan">
Marquette, Michigan

Marquette is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan. Close to 20,000 people live there. Marquette is in the Upper Penninsula, on Lake Superior and is an important port on that lake. Much of the iron ore that was taken from mines in the Upper Peninsula was loaded onto ships in Marquette. Marquette is in the United States of America.


</doc>
<doc id="56879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56879" title="John Taverner">
John Taverner

John Taverner (born about 1490 – died 18 October, 1545) was the most important English composer of his time. He was also an organist.

We cannot be sure exactly when Taverner was born. Some people think that he was a boy chorister at the church of Tattershall in Lincolnshire but his name does not appear on the list of choristers there. People now think that he worked there later as a lay clerk.

He got a job at Cardinal College (now called Christ Church) in Oxford but he could not stay very long because King Henry VIII made lots of changes to the way people had to worship in church. Taverner even hid some books which the king had forbidden under the floor, and he got into trouble for doing this. In the end the Cardinal did not punish him because, he said, he was “only a musician”.

In 1530 he seems to have gone back to Lincolnshire and stayed there for the rest of his life. He probably wrote no more music, but he was quite rich.

Taverner composed eight masses. The most famous one is called the "Western Wynde". It was a “parody mass”, which meant that it used a popular tune with that title. Another mass was called "Gloria tibi trinitas". This work set a fashion for pieces which were called "In Nomine"s, because the tune was from the Benedictus in the mass which sets the words “in nomine domine” (“in the name of the Father”). “In nomine”s were compositions for instruments which used this tune.

Taverner also wrote magnificats and motets.


</doc>
<doc id="56880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56880" title="John Tavener">
John Tavener

Sir John Tavener (born 28 January 1944, in London) is an English composer. He is one of the most important composers of today. Most of his music is inspired by religion in some way.

John Tavener went to Highgate School in North London. Another pupil there at the time was John Rutter. At school he studied piano, organ and composition and wrote music for the school orchestra. He also wrote music for the Presbyterian church where his family went and where his father was organist. In 1962 he went to the Royal College of Music where he studied the piano at first but then changed to composition. One of his early successes was a cantata called "Cain and Abel" which was performed by the London Bach Society. It was the performance of "The Whale" by the London Sinfonietta in 1968 that made him really famous. This work used collage, pre-recorded tape, amplified percussion and a chorus who used loudhailers. This kind of thing was very fashionable in the 1960s.

Another work written in 1968 was "In Alium". It was performed at the Proms. It was an unusual concert: three works by living composers were played in the first half. The audience were asked to vote for which one they wanted to hear again after the interval. They chose "In Alium".

The Beatles became interested in Tavener’s music. John Lennon heard The Whale and he decided to issue Tavener’s music on the newly formed Apple label.

Tavener became professor of composition at Trinity College. He continued to compose, although he often had difficulty finishing pieces. He was often worried that he might not be able to think of any new music. In 1977 he became a member of the Russian Orthodox Church. This changed his life. His music was very religious. He married his second wife and had two children. He was also very ill with heart trouble and even died on the operating table in hospital, but he brought back to life by the doctors.

He made a very important friend, Mother Thekla. She was an 80 year-old nun in the Orthodox Church, and she gave John a lot of advice and encouragement in his life.

A short piece for choir, "The Lamb" was written as a birthday present for his 3 year old nephew. It is very often sung by choirs at Christmas as a carol.

In 1989 his work "The Protecting Veil" was performed at the Proms. It was a work for cello and orchestra. The cellist was Steven Isserlis. This piece is one of the best known modern works for cello. He continued to write a lot of music. His "Song for Athene" was performed at the funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales in 1998. It was heard on television all over the world. 

Tavener was knighted in 2000.



</doc>
<doc id="56881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56881" title="Category:1545 deaths">
Category:1545 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="56882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56882" title="Category:1545">
Category:1545


</doc>
<doc id="56893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56893" title="Escape velocity">
Escape velocity

Escape velocity is the initial speed that something would need to completely escape the gravity of a large body, like a star or a planet (such as the Earth), by mere inertia.

If a ball is thrown upwards while standing on the ground, the ball will reach a certain height (the faster thrown - the higher) and fall back down. But imagine if ball is thrown fast enough that it "never" falls back down, and instead travels into space farther and farther away from the Earth. The minimum speed at which this could happen is called the escape velocity.

The escape velocity at the surface of the Earth is 11.2 kilometers per second (or 6.96 miles per second), assuming there is no drag.

This is, of cause, a very high speed compared to how fast a ball can be thrown. Even a bullet shot into the sky will fall back down, because its initial speed of nearly 1 kilometer per second is far from escape velocity.

Spacecraft starting from the surface of Earth has a zero initial speed. But, if it has enough fuel, it may be permanently accelerated by its engine until it reaches escape velocity. Then it will travel into space even after the engine is shut off.


</doc>
<doc id="56899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56899" title="Razor">
Razor

A razor is a tool with one or more blades used by men for shaving the hair from their face, and by women for shaving hair from their legs and underarms. The earliest razors known are from the Bronze Age. They were made of bronze and had an oval shape. There are different kinds of razors today, including straight razors, which are rarely used, and safety razors and electric razors.

A slightly different type of electric razor is used to trim and cut hair from the head, because hair can be cut much more quickly with electric haircutting razors than with scissors.

Before the 20th century, straight razors were widely used. A straight razor consists of a knife blade, which can be reused. Since this blade is usually very sharp, there is a high risk of cutting oneself with the razor while scraping off the hair. Today, such razors are rarely used any more. 

In the late 18th century a French engineer, Jean-Jacques Perret. With this system, the skin is protected, from all but the edge of the blade. This makes cutting much harder. The first such razor was released in 1875 by the Campfe Brothers. In 1901, King Camp Gillette invented the first razor with disposable razor blades. The blades were thrown away after each use. The company, Gilette still makes such razors today. They sell the razor relatively cheap, and make big profits on the razor blades.

The electric razor was the next big step. With electric razors, shaving cream, soap or water is no longer needed. Electric razors use electricity to either make blades rotate or oscillate. That is the blades are either moved in circles, or they are moved up and down (or left and right). The razor is usually powered by a rechargeable battery. Prof. Alexandre Horowitz invented the concept of rotating blades which is still marketed as "Philishave" by Philips.

A slightly different type of electric razor is used to trim and cut hair from the head. Haircutting electric razors have comb-like attachments which determine the length of the hair. Electric haircutting razors are widely used by military and prison barbers, because hair can be cut much more quickly with electric haircutting razors than with scissors.

Shaving using any of the shaving methods (straight razor, safety razor, or electric razor) can have side-effects, including cuts, abrasions, and irritated skin. "Razor bumps" can also occur from removing ingrown hairs. To reduce the likelihood of cuts, abrasions, and irritated skin, people can use a fresh razor blade and prepare their faces by washing in hot, soapy water and then applying a shaving cream lather.


</doc>
<doc id="56909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56909" title="Mood stabilizer">
Mood stabilizer

A mood stabilizer is a psychiatric medication used to treat mood disorders characterized by fast and unstable mood changes. One of the disorders treated is bipolar disorder. With that condition, the mood can change rapidly, between mania and depression. Many mood stabilizers can also prevent convulsions.


</doc>
<doc id="56910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56910" title="International Baccalaureate">
International Baccalaureate

The International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme, or IBDP is a well-known and difficult school program. It is taught in English, French, and Spanish in 130 countries.

Students earn an IB Diploma after passing exams and completing the program requirements. They have to take classes in 6 subject areas. This is more than most countries.

The six subject areas are: Language 1(first language), Language 2(second language), Math, Science, World Studies, and Electives. History, Literature, Geography and Economics are all World Studies subjects.

Students also have to write a long paper called an 'Extended Essay' and take a philosophy class called 'Theory of Knowledge'.

IBDP is famous as a difficult school program because the program has many subjects. Students have to do to 3 Higher Level subjects and 3 Standard Level subjects. Higher Level subjects are longer and more complex.

IB is studied in most countries but some study the IB differently.


</doc>
<doc id="56914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56914" title="Wolfgang Schüssel">
Wolfgang Schüssel

Wolfgang Schüssel (born June 7, 1945, in Vienna) was the Chancellor of Austria from February 4 2000 until January 11 2007. From January 2006 until June 2006 he was the president of the European Union.


</doc>
<doc id="56915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56915" title="Vaduz">
Vaduz

Vaduz (pronounced /Fah-doots/) is the capital city of the country of Liechtenstein. It has a population of about 5,000 people.


</doc>
<doc id="56919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56919" title="Luxembourgish language">
Luxembourgish language

Luxembourgish is a West Germanic language. A lot of people in Luxembourg speak the language. It is quite similar to German and French. Outside Luxembourg, not many people speak it, and inside Luxembourg many people speak other languages, too. 


</doc>
<doc id="56921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56921" title="Jean-Pierre Cassel">
Jean-Pierre Cassel

Jean-Pierre Cassel (real name Jean-Pierre Crochon, October 27,1932 - April 19, 2007) was a French actor. He was the father of Vincent Cassel. He became known because of the roles he had in films in the 1950s and 1960s. He died of cancer.


</doc>
<doc id="56923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56923" title="Sea cucumber">
Sea cucumber

Sea cucumbers are a class of echinoderms, the Holothuroidea. They have a longish body, and leathery skin. Sea cucumbers live on the floor of the ocean. Most sea cucumbers are scavengers. There are about 1500 species of sea cucumbers. Sea cucumbers have a unique respiratory system, and effective defences against predators. They are considered by the Chinese good to eat.

Like all echinoderms, sea cucumbers have an endoskeleton just below the skin, calcareous structures that are usually reduced to isolated ossicles joined by connective tissue. These can sometimes be enlarged to flattened plates, forming an armour. In pelagic species the skeleton is absent.

Sea cucumbers communicate with each other by sending hormone signals through the water.

A remarkable feature of these animals is the collagen which forms their body wall. This can be loosened and tightened at will. If the animal wants to squeeze through a small gap, it can undo the collagen connections, and pour into the space. To keep itself safe in these crevices, the sea cucumber hooks up all its collagen fibres to make its body firm again. 

The animals have an internal respiratory tree which floats in the internal watery cavity. At the rear, water is pumped in and out of the cloaca, so gaseous exchange takes place with the resiratory tree in the gut. 

Some species of coral reef sea cucumbers defend themselves by expelling sticky "cuvierian tubules" to entangle potential predators. These tubules are attached to the respiratory tree in the gut. When startled, these cucumbers may expel the tubules through a tear in the wall of the cloaca. In effect, this squirts sticky threads all over a predator. Replacement tubules grow back in one-and-a-half to five weeks, depending on the species. The release of these tubules can also be accompanied by the discharge of a toxic chemical known as holothurin, which has similar properties to soap. This chemical can kill any animal in the vicinity and is one more way in which these sedentary animals can defend themselves. Other cucumbers, lacking this device, can split their intestinal wall, and spew out their gut and respiratory tree. They regenerate them later. Zoologists who experience this believe it to be an impressive deterrent. "The mess one individual can make must be seen to be believed".

The existence of these defences explains why the holothurians were able to do without the strong skeleton of their ancestors.

Highly modified tube feet around the mouth are always present. These are branched and retractile tentacles, much larger than the regular tube feet. Sea cucumbers have between ten and thirty such tentacles, depending on the species. There is a ring of larger ossicles round the mouth and oesophagus to which the muscles of the tube feet are attached. With their sticky tentacles the animal collects detritus and small organisms. 


</doc>
<doc id="56925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56925" title="Yochanan Vollach">
Yochanan Vollach

Yochanan Vollach, also transliterated Jochanan Wallach or Yohanan Wallach, born 14 May 1945) is a former Israeli footballer superstar which played at: Hapoel Haifa, Maccabi Haifa, HKFC.
He was a member of the Israeli national team that competed at the 1970 FIFA World Cup.

At 1979 he retired and volunteered as general manager of Maccabi Haifa. Vollach was the Major reason for Maccabi's success.

Vollach has a masters degree in business administration from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and is a retired Major in the IDF. 

In recognition of his extensive volunteering to the sporting community as well as business success, he was awarded honorary citizenship by the city of Haifa, in 1993.

Today, Vollach is president of the Maccabi Haifa association and president and CEO of Newlog, a subsidiary of Israeli shipping magnate Zim.

Maccabi Haifa & Hapoel Haifa:

Maccabi Haifa youth team:



</doc>
<doc id="56926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56926" title="Maccabi Haifa">
Maccabi Haifa

Maccabi Haifa is the biggest sports club in Israel, founded in 1913, and part of the Maccabi association. It runs several sports clubs and teams in Haifa such as: Football, Basketball, Weightlifting, swimming, Tennis, Table tennis, Volleyball, Team handball, Water polo, Ice hockey, Artistic gymnastics, Chess, Boxing, Fencing and others. Maccabi Haifa is well known for its green uniforms. 

The president of Maccabi Haifa association is Yochanan Vollach.


</doc>
<doc id="56927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56927" title="Hapoel Haifa">
Hapoel Haifa

Hapoel Haifa F. C. is a professional football (soccer) club in Israel, founded in 1924.



</doc>
<doc id="56936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56936" title="Swalwell, Alberta">
Swalwell, Alberta

Swalwell is a small village in Kneehill County, Alberta, Canada. It is about from Calgary, the largest city in the Province of Alberta.

Swalwell is at . It has a population of 338 people. The postal code in Swalwell is T0M 1Y0.


</doc>
<doc id="56948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56948" title="Category:1002">
Category:1002


</doc>
<doc id="56949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56949" title="Polysaccharide">
Polysaccharide

Polysaccharides are relatively complex carbohydrates.

They are polymers made up of many monosaccharides. They are very large, often branched, molecules. They tend to be amorphous, insoluble in water, and have no sweet taste.

When all the constituent monosaccharides are of the same type they are termed "homopolysaccharides"; when more than one type of monosaccharide is present they are termed "heteropolysaccharides".

Examples include storage polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen and structural polysaccharides such as cellulose and chitin.

Starches are insoluble in water. They can be digested by hydrolysis, catalyzed by enzymes called amylases. Humans and other animals have amylases, so they can digest starches. Potato, rice, wheat, and maize are major sources of starch in the human diet.

The structural components of plants are formed primarily from cellulose. Wood is largely cellulose and lignin, while paper and cotton are nearly pure cellulose. Cellulose is a polymer made with repeated glucose units. Humans and many other animals do not digest cellulose. Certain animals can digest cellulose, because bacteria possessing the enzyme are present in their gut. The classic example is the termite.



</doc>
<doc id="56950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56950" title="Alfred Gusenbauer">
Alfred Gusenbauer

Alfred Gusenbauer (born February 8, 1960, in St. Pölten, Austria) was the chancellor of Austria from January 2007 to December 2008. His party won the elections of 2008, and he was succeeded as Chancellor the new party leader, Werner Faymann, on 2 December 2008. He was the leader of the political party SPÖ.



</doc>
<doc id="56953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56953" title="Category:1109">
Category:1109


</doc>
<doc id="56961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56961" title="Chinchilla">
Chinchilla

The Chincilla is a small rodent. They live in the Andes in South America. They are active during dusk and dawn. Such an activity pattern is called crepuscular. Together with the Viscacha, they form the Chinchillidae family. 

In their usual habitat, chinchillas live either in burrows, or in crevices of rocks. They are good jumpers, and can jump very high. Chinchillas live in colonies. The females are much bigger than the males. Predators in the wild include hawks, skunks, felines, and canines. Wild chinchillas seem to feed on plants, fruits, seed, and small insects.

Chinchillas have been domesticated and are sometimes kept as pets. Their diet is mostly based on hay.
Chinchillas make a variety of vocalizations, including chirps, squeaks, and barks.
They can be found in a variety of colors and mutations. 

There are two species of chinchilla, Chinchilla brevicaudata and chinchilla lanigera. The difference between the two species is small. Currently, Chinchilla brevicaudata seems to be facing extinction. Chinchilla lanigera can still be found in the wild, but has become rare. Domesticated chinchillas seem to come from the lanigera species.

The following references are not necessarily in simple English:


</doc>
<doc id="56966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56966" title="Solubility">
Solubility

Solubility means the ability for a given substance, the solute, to dissolve in a solvent. 

It is measured in terms of the maximum amount of solute dissolved in a solvent at equilibrium. 
The resulting solution is called a saturated solution. Certain substances are soluble in all proportions with a given solvent. An example of this is ethanol in water. This property is more correctly described as miscible.



</doc>
<doc id="56967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56967" title="SpVgg Greuther Fürth">
SpVgg Greuther Fürth

The Spielvereinigung Greuther Fürth is a German football club which plays in the German 2. Bundesliga.


</doc>
<doc id="56969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56969" title="Taj Mahal (musician)">
Taj Mahal (musician)

Henry Saint Clair Fredericks, better known by the stage name Taj Mahal (born May 17, 1942), is an American blues musician. He has been performing and recording since 1964 and is still popular.

Taj Mahal has received two Grammy Awards (nine nominations) over his career.


On February 8, 2006 Taj Mahal was designated the official Blues Artist of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.


</doc>
<doc id="56975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56975" title="Floyd Patterson">
Floyd Patterson

Floyd Patterson (January 4, 1935 – May 11, 2006) was an American heavyweight boxing champion and Olympic gold medalist. Patterson won the gold medal for boxing in the 1952 Olympic Games in Helsinki, Finland. He was the heavyweight champion of the world from 1956-1959 and from 1960-1962. Patterson will always be remembered as the first heavyweight champion to lose the title and get it back within a year. 

Patterson's amateur record was 44-4 with 37 knockouts. He began fighting as a middleweight and moved to the light heavyweight division. Patterson's first loss was to Joey Maxim in 1954. In January of 1956, Patterson married Sandra Hicks. She was his wife until 1969. Their marriage ended because Patterson did not want to quit boxing. 

After Rocky Marciano retired, Floyd began aiming at a shot for the vacant heavyweight title. On November 30, 1956, Patterson had two very good things happen in his life. His wife gave birth to his first child, and he beat Archie Moore to become the heavyweight champion of the world. He became the youngest boxing champion ever. He lost the title in 1959 to Ingemar Johanson but he regained it in 1960. In 1962, he lost it again to Sonny Liston. Patterson tried to regain the title two more times from Muhammad Ali in 1965 and 1972. In 1965 he fought for 12 rounds but on both tries he failed to win title.

Patterson will always be remembered as the first man to win back boxing heavyweight championship. All other champions before him failed.



</doc>
<doc id="56977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56977" title="Clockwise">
Clockwise

A clockwise movement is one that moves "like the clock's hands": from the top to the right, then down, then to the left, and back to the top. 

The opposite of clockwise is counterclockwise or anticlockwise. The movement is from the top to the left, then down, then to the right, and finally back up to the top.


</doc>
<doc id="56980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56980" title="Manuel Friedrich">
Manuel Friedrich

Manuel Friedrich (born September 13, 1979 in Bad Kreuznach) is a German footballer with the position of the Defender. He has played for the team 1.FSV Mainz 05 and at the moment he playes for Bayer Leverkusen. Friedrich has played nine matches for the German national football team since 2006. During that time he has scored one goal.



</doc>
<doc id="56981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56981" title="Bruno Kreisky">
Bruno Kreisky

Bruno Kreisky (January 22, 1911 – July 29, 1990) served as Chancellor of Austria from 1970 to 1983. He is remembered in Austria as one of the people who helped shape the Austrian State Treaty. This treaty is the foundation of modern-day Austria. It was signed in 1955.


</doc>
<doc id="56982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56982" title="Viscacha">
Viscacha

Viscachas or vizcachas are rodents. Together with the chinchilla they make up the family "Chinchillidae". 

There are two genera and four species of viscacha.





</doc>
<doc id="56985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56985" title="Incisor">
Incisor

Incisors are special kinds of teeth that can be found in some mammals, such as humans. They are the eight large flat teeth with straight edges that are at the front of a person's mouth, in between the canine teeth, which are pointed. The straight edges of the "incisors" are useful for biting because they cut sharply. They come together like a pair of pincers. In a human, the two teeth at the middle of each jaw are called the "central incisors", and the side ones are the "lateral icisors". (lateral means "to the side"). Some humans never grow "lateral incisors" or have very small ones, particularly at the top.

In many herbivores (plant-eating animals) these front teeth are uses to cut off stems of grass and other growing things, that are then ground up by the molars at the back of the mouth. Some omnivores (animals that eat both plants and meat), like humans, have incisors like herbivores. In carnivores (meat-eating animals) like cats, the incisors are often quite small and the canine teeth are very long and suitable for tearing meat. Carnivores use their incisors for many jobs that need fine control, such as catching fleas, carrying a kitten or peeling the skin off a fish. If a dog or a member of the cat family needs to cut something with their teeth, they use their back teeth like scissors. 



</doc>
<doc id="56986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56986" title="Gerbil">
Gerbil

The Gerbil is a family of rodents. There are approximately 110 species of gerbils. All gerbils are adapted to arid habitats. At one time, gerbils were known as Desert rats. Most gerbils are diurnal, some are crepuscular. The gerbil is native to Central Asia, India, the Middle East, and Africa. The average length of a gerbil is usually between six and twelve inches, this includes the tail which makes up one half of the total length. The gerbil is also a common household pet. 




</doc>
<doc id="56987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56987" title="Muridae">
Muridae

Muridae is the largest family of mammals. It contains over 600 species. These species can be found naturally throughout Eurasia, Africa, and Australia. They have been introduced worldwide. The group includes true mice and rats, gerbils, and relatives.

The family name Muridae is sometimes used in a broader sense to include all members of the superfamily Muroidea.

The Murids are classified in 4 subfamilies, around 140 genera and approximately 650 species.




</doc>
<doc id="56988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56988" title="Muroidea">
Muroidea

Muroidea is a large superfamily of rodents. It includes hamsters, gerbils, true mice and rats, and many other relatives. They live on almost every continent except Antarctica. Some scientists have placed all members of this group into a single family, Muridae. Sometimes there are difficulties in knowing how the subfamilies are related to one another. 

The muroids are classified in 6 families, 19 subfamilies, around 280 genera and at least 1300 species.



</doc>
<doc id="56989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56989" title="Pierre Boulez">
Pierre Boulez

Pierre Boulez (pronounce: “Boo-layz) (born Montbrison, Loire, 26 March 1925) is one of the most important French composers of modern classical music. He is also a very famous conductor.

Boulez started his university studies by studying mathematics. He then gave that up and went to the Paris Conservatoire to study music. One of his teachers was Olivier Messiaen. He wrote music in an atonal style, similar to the serial music of Anton Webern. Gradually his music became completely serial, so that everything about the music: the pitches of the notes, the length of the notes, the louds and softs, the accents were all organized in a mathematical way. This is called “total serialism” or “integral serialism”. This kind of music is very strange to listen to.

Boulez belonged to a group of composers who met in the summer at Darmstadt in Germany. This group is often called the “Darmstadt School”. He wrote music which was extremely hard to play e.g. "Structures book 1" for two pianos.

Perhaps his most famous piece is "Le marteau sans maître" ("The hammer without a master"). This piece, finished in 1957, is for a small group of instruments: flute, guitar, vibraphone, xylorimba (a cross between a xylophone and a marimba), percussion and viola and a singer (alto). It has very complicated rhythms and is influenced by jazz, gamelan music, African and Japanese music.

Boulez then tried out new ideas. He wrote works which would sound different at each performance because the players could improvise some ideas. "Pli selon pli" ("Fold upon fold") was a work for orchestra and soprano. It was based on a poem by Stéphane Mallarmé about a swan that could not fly away because it was stuck on the frozen lake. His piece "Eclat" (1965) also uses improvisation. The conductor is free to decide on how certain bits could be played and makes signs to the players to improvise in certain ways that the composers has written down. This kind of composition is sometimes called “Chance music” because it is different each time it is played. The American composer John Cage also experimented with Chance music.

In the 1970s he became interested in electronic music. The French president Georges Pompidou supported the building of a big Arts Centre in Paris. This centre included a large underground set of studios for music. It became known as IRCAM (translated from the French: Institute for Acoustical/Musical Research and Coordination). A lot of composers worked in IRCAM. They used computers, tape recorders etc, to compose music.

Boulez is also a world-famous conductor. He has conducted many of the world's greatest orchestras. He was the chief conductor of the BBC Symphony Orchestra from 1971-1975, the New York Philharmonic from 1971-1977 and now he is Conductor Emeritus of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. His concerts usually consist of music by the great 20th century composers such as Alban Berg, Claude Debussy, Gustav Mahler, Arnold Schoenberg, Igor Stravinsky, Béla Bartók, Anton Webern and Edgard Varèse—as well as lots of new music which he conducted when it had just been written. 

Boulez has also written several books and articles on music. 


</doc>
<doc id="56991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56991" title="Murinae">
Murinae

The Old World rats and mice (called Murinae) is a subfamily in the family Muridae. It has about 560 species. This subfamily is larger than all mammal families except the Cricetidae. It is also larger than all mammal orders except the bats and the remainder of the rodents.

Probably the best known genera are rats and mice. 

The Murinae are native to Africa, Europe, Asia, and Australia. They are the only terrestrial placental mammals native to Australia. They have also been introduced to all continents except Antarctica. They are serious pest animals. This is particularly true in island communities where they have contributed to the endangerment and extinction of many native animals.

Two prominent murine human commensals have become vital laboratory animals. The Brown Rat and House Mouse are both used for medical tests. They are among a handful of animals where the full genome has been sequenced.

The murines have a distinctive molar pattern that involves three rows of cusps instead of two, the primitive pattern seen most frequently in muroid rodents.

The first known appearance of the Murinae in the fossil record is about 14 million years ago with the fossil genus "Antemus". "Antemus" is thought to come directly from "Potwarmus", which has a more primitive tooth pattern. Likewise, two genera, "Progonomys" and "Karnimata" are thought to derive directly from "Antemus". "Progonomys" is thought to be the ancestor of "Mus" and relatives, while "Karnimata" is thought to lead to "Rattus" and relatives. All of these fossils are found in the well-preserved and easily dated Siwalik fossil beds of Pakistan. The transition from "Potwarmus" to "Antemus" to "Progonomys" and "Karnimata" is considered an excellent example of anagenic evolution. 

Most of the Murinae have been poorly studied. Some genera have been grouped, such as the hydromyine water rats, conilurine or pseudomyine Australian mice, or the phloeomyine Southeast Asian forms. No tribal level taxonomy has been attempted for the complete subfamily. It looks like genera from southeast Asian islands and Australia may be early offshoots compared to mainland forms. The vlei rats in the genera "Otomys" and "Parotomys" are often placed in a separate subfamily, Otomyinae. They have been shown to be closely related to African murines in spite of their uniqueness.

Three genera, "Uranomys", "Lophuromys", and "Acomys" were once considered to be murines- Later, it was discovered that they were more closely related to gerbils through molecular phylogenetics. They have been assigned a new subfamily status, Deomyinae. 


</doc>
<doc id="56996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56996" title="Castorimorpha">
Castorimorpha

Castorimorpha is the suborder of rodents containing the beavers, the pocket gophers, and the kangaroo rats.


</doc>
<doc id="56997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56997" title="Arpeggio">
Arpeggio

In music, an arpeggio is a group of notes in a chord which are played one after the other, instead of all at the same time. The arpeggio may either go up or go down, but it is more common going up. 

The word "arpeggio" comes from the Italian word "arpeggiare", which means "to play on a harp". This is because harps are very good at playing arpeggiated chords .

An arpeggio is a type of broken chord, but there are many different kinds.

Learning many musical instruments include playing scales and arpeggios. They are often played as part of music examinations, especially for piano and the string instruments. This is because these skills are useful for playing a lot of music. For example, Bach's Prelude in C () is made of many different arpeggios. Guitarists sometimes play arpeggios instead of strumming, and banjo players do it a lot. 
An "arpeggiated chord" means a chord which is "spread". This means the notes do not start exactly at the same time. This is sometimes called "arpeggiato", and in modern music is called a "rolled chord". An arpeggiated chord is written with a wiggly line going from top to bottom in front of the chord. An arpeggiated chord is spread from the lowest to the highest note. Occasionally composers such as Béla Bartók ask for them to be played from top to bottom. This is shown by adding an arrow pointing down.


</doc>
<doc id="57004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57004" title="NKVD">
NKVD

The NKVD ("Narodny komissariat vnutrennikh del" ) or "People's Commisariat for Internal Affairs") was a government department which handled a number of the Soviet Union's affairs of state. 

The NKVD is best known for the Main Directorate for State Security (GUGB), which came after the OGPU and the Cheka as the secret police agency of the Soviet Union, and which became KGB. Many think of the NKVD as a criminal group. This is mostly because of the activities of GUGB officers and investigators. The NKVD was also in charge of Stalin's foreign intelligence service and overseas 'special operations'. These NKVD sub-branches hired spies and gathered of political, military, and economic information from other countries. They also got rid of political enemies who lived outside of the Soviet Union and enforced Stalin's policies within Communist Party movements in other countries. 

In addition to its state security and police functions, some of its departments handled other matters, such as transportation, fire guards, border guards (NKVD Border Troops), etc. These jobs were usually assigned to the Ministry of the Interior (MVD). 



</doc>
<doc id="57008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57008" title="Spyglass Entertainment">
Spyglass Entertainment

Spyglass Entertainment is a movie and television production company. Jonathan Glickman is the current President of Production. Internationally, Buena Vista has released most movies made by Spyglass (with exceptions). The first movie released by the company was "Instinct". 













</doc>
<doc id="57013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57013" title="Hovercraft">
Hovercraft

A hovercraft is a vehicle that is supported and moved by a cushion of air blowing downwards. They are used on water and land where the surface is smooth. They are often used as ferries and by militaries for amphibious, or on water and on land (like an amphibian can live in water and land) missions. A hovercraft can move cargo, people, and cars.


</doc>
<doc id="57018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57018" title="Duccio">
Duccio

Duccio di Buoninsegna, (c.1255 - c.1319) was one of the most important painters in Italy in the Late Middle Ages. He worked mainly in the city of Siena in Tuscany but one of his largest works was done for a church in Florence. He is most famous for his altarpieces of the Madonna and Child. Duccio painted in the Byzantine style, similar to Greek icons. 

The first written record of Duccio is dated 1278, when he was painting in Siena. His paintings, of which only a few remain, are all Holy pictures. Two of them are very large and were painted as altarpieces. Some of them are very small and were for a private owner, not for a church. 

At that time, many artists did painting that were made specially for people to look at they were praying. The pictures are most often of the Madonna and Child. They often have gold backgrounds which glow when they are lit by candlelight. The figures in the paintings do not look very solid or realistic. They look very still, calm and holy. These paintings had been done in the same style for many hundreds of years, in Greece, Constantinople and many other countries where the Greek Orthodox Church was the main church. The style, which was called the Byzantine style, had also spread to Italy where several Orthodox icons (Holy picture), had become famous and were copied by many artists. 

Duccio was one of the greatest painters in the Byzantine style in Italy at the time. He had a famous rival who worked in Florence. His name was Cimabue. One of Cimabue's pupils, Giotto, was to become even more famous, and is remembered as having begun the Renaissance style of painting in Florence. Even though Duccio probably saw Giotto's paintings, in which the figures look solid and three-dimensional, like actors on a stage, Duccio was not very influenced by him. 

Duccio had several students who also became famous painters of the 1300s. They include Simone Martini and the Lorenzetti brothers, who were also influenced by Giotto. 

In 1285 Duccio was asked to go to Florence to paint an altarpiece of the Madonna and Child for the church of Santa Maria Novella which had been rebuilt for the Domincan friars. It was a very large church and for it, Duccio painted the biggest ancient altarpiece of this type that is known. It is called the "Rucellai Madonna" because the Rucellai, who were a very rich family, paid for the decoration of the main chapel of the church, where this altarpiece was hung in the 1600s. 

Duccio painted the Madonna sitting on a throne with the Christ Child in her lap, raising his hand in blessing. Around them are six kneeling angels in robes of delicate colours. The robe of the Madonna is very dark blue and looks almost black; it is painted with ground-up semi precious stone called lapis lazuli. The robe of the baby looks quite transparent. Duccio was one of the first painters to try to paint transparent material. One of the important parts of Duccio's design is the gold border of the Madonnna's robe, which seems to wander around the painting in a waving line, and frames the Madonna's face in a way that holds the attention of the viewer. 

The "Rucellai Madonna" is no longer in the Church of Santa Maria Novella. In 1948 it was moved to the Ufizzi Gallery where it is shown in the same room as Cimabue's "Trinita Madonna" and Giotto's "Ognisanti Madonna". 

In Duccio's own city there was a large cathedral. In 1308 he was given the job of making an enormous altarpiece of the Madonna on a throne for the cathedral. It was not to be as tall as the "Rucellai Madonna" but was much wider, because it showed two rows of saints and a row of angels on either side of the throne. The four saints the kneel at the front of the picture are those who were particularly remembered in the city of Siena. The altarpiece was to have a very fancy Gothic gold frame with more figures at the top, and small pictures at the bottom, but unfortunately the frame has been destroyed. 

Because the painting stood above an altar that was right in the middle of the cathedral, and not against a wall, it was easy for people to walk around to see the back of the altarpiece. So Duccio painted the back as well. The back of the altarpiece had lots of small scenes which tell the life of Jesus. These small scenes, which have gold backgrounds and bright colours in the usual way, are very lively illustrations to the Bible stories. 

After three years, the altarpiece was finished. It was carried in a great procession from Duccio's workshop, up the hill to the cathedral which stood on the highest point of the city. It was called the "Maestà" (or "Majesty"). Four other artists were asked to do smaller altarpieces to go in the four chapels that were nearby.

Unfortunately, in the 1700s, people at the cathedral thought that Duccio's altarpiece was old-fashioned. It was taken to pieces, and some of the smaller parts were sold. They can be seen in the National Gallery, London and other places. Luckily most of the pieces were kept together and can now be seen in the Cathedral Museum which is near Siena Cathedral. 




</doc>
<doc id="57019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57019" title="Castoridae">
Castoridae

Castoridae is a family of rodents. Today, the only genus that has alive species in it is "Castor". It contains modern-day beavers. In addition, about 20 extinct genera of beavers have been put into the family.


</doc>
<doc id="57020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57020" title="Template:IUCN2006">
Template:IUCN2006


</doc>
<doc id="57021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57021" title="Template:ITIS">
Template:ITIS

TSN 

</doc>
<doc id="57022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57022" title="IUCN Red List">
IUCN Red List

The IUCN Red List (also IUCN Red List of Threatened Species) is a list of species. The list tells for each species how likely it is to become extinct (or if it is already). This is called its conservation status. This list is put together each year by the World Conservation Union. 

There are exact criteria to see if a certain species is threatened to become extinct. These criteria are the same for all parts of the world. The purpose of the list is to tell people how threatened a certain species is. Politicians can then decide on what needs to be done and the efforts needed to save certain species from becoming extinct.



</doc>
<doc id="57024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57024" title="Redruth">
Redruth

Redruth is a small town in South West Cornwall. It has an old mining history. In 2001 there were 12,352 people living in Redruth. The district of Camborne and Redruth was once very important for the mining of tin and copper. Until 1974 Camborne and Redruth were included in the Camborne-Redruth urban district.


</doc>
<doc id="57030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57030" title="Integrated Taxonomic Information System">
Integrated Taxonomic Information System

The Integrated Taxonomic Information System is a common database. It wants to unify the information gathered about different taxonomy of biological taxa. 



</doc>
<doc id="57032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57032" title="Yersinia pestis">
Yersinia pestis

Yersinia pestis is a bacillus. It is a bacterium. It has been identified as the infectious agent of bubonic plague. This infection can also cause variants of bubonic plague.. These three forms of the plague have be responsible for a high death toll, in many epidemics throughout human history. They are also made accountable for the Great Plague and the Black Death. Because of the Black Death, about one third (one of three) people in Europe died. This was between 1347 and 1353.

The bacillus was discovered by the physician Alexandre Yersin during an epidemic of the plague in Hong Kong, in 1894. Yersin worked for the Pasteur Institute at the time. Originally, the microoganism was named "Pasteurella pestis". It was renamed in 1967.

Currently, three varieties of Y. pestis are known. 

Historians are currently divided about the role of Y.pestis in the Black Death. Some historians said that the Black Death spread far too fast. Therefore Y.pestis could not have caused it. DNA from Y.pestis has been found in the teeth of some of the victims of the Black Death. For this reason, Y.pestis must have been at least a factor in some (but not necessarily all) European plague epidemics. 

These references are probably not in Simple English


</doc>
<doc id="57033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57033" title="Leptospirosis">
Leptospirosis

Leptospirosis (also known as Weil's disease, canicola fever, canefield fever, nanukayami fever or seven day fever) is a bacterial disease. It is caused by spirochaetes of the genus "Leptospira". This bacterium affects humans and many animals, including mammals, birds, amphibians, and reptiles. It was first described by Adolf Weil in 1886. At the time he reported an "acute infectious disease with enlargement of spleen, jaundice and nephritis". The pathogen, "Leptospira"-genus bacteria was isolated in 1907 from a post mortem kidney slice.

Leptospirosis is a relatively rare bacterial infection in humans. The infection is commonly transmitted to humans by allowing fresh water that has been contaminated by animal urine (often from rats) to come in contact with the skin, eyes or with the mucous membranes. 

It usually causes heart failure, kidney failure or liver failure and most suffers die if they are not treated urgently. Don't worry it's quite rare. 
Except for tropical areas, Leptospirosis seems to occur most often in the months August to September, in the Northern Hemisphere.


</doc>
<doc id="57047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57047" title="François-Joseph Gossec">
François-Joseph Gossec

François-Joseph Gossec (born Vergnies, 17 January 1734 — 16 February, 1829) was a South Netherlands composer. He was born in what is now Belgium, but worked in France during his long life. People hardly ever hear his music now except for one very popular piece of dance music called Tambourin. He was famous in France in his time and had a lot of influence on French music.

Gossec’s family were small farmers. When Gossec was young he worked as a cowherd (someone who looks after cows). He showed a lot of talent and became a choir-boy in the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Antwerp.

In 1751 he went to Paris. The composer Jean-Philippe Rameau was very impressed by him and got him jobs playing the violin and double bass in his private orchestra. He heard a lot of music by German composers and started to write music of his own. His symphony in D was one of the first works in France to use clarinets which had only just been invented. He composed many operas as well as instrumental works.

In 1762 Gossec became the conductor of a private theatre of the Prince of Condé at Chantilly. A lot of German and Bohemian wind players at that time went to Paris, and Gossec gave them jobs in his orchestra.

Gossec wrote a lot of music for the French Revolution. When the Paris Conservatoire was opened in 1795 he became a teacher of composition there.

Gossec composed lots of different kinds of music. His music for instruments was very successful. He wrote operas which suited the taste of French people at the time, but he did not have a good sense of drama and the words of his operas were uninteresting. He was an important man in the history of music because he organized a lot of musical events in Paris. He was made a "chevalier" of the Legion of Honour. A lot of composers went to his funeral.


</doc>
<doc id="57049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57049" title="Josiah Wedgwood">
Josiah Wedgwood

Josiah Wedgwood (July 12, 1730 - January 3, 1795, born in Burslem, Stoke-on-Trent) was an English potter, who became famous for the industrialisation (making things in factories, not workshops) of pottery. His grandson was the famous naturalist, Charles Darwin.

When he was a child, Josiah had smallpox, but he survived (did not die). The smallpox injured his knee, so he could not easily work as a potter. Instead, he worked hard to design pottery. Working as an apprentice, Wedgwood learned many techniques for making pottery. He used his skills to make one of the first pottery factories, Ivy Works, in Burslem, now part of Stoke-on-Trent.

Wedgwood was very interested in science and technology, and used new ideas to make good quality pottery. He became famous for making pottery for royalty, and became very rich. He spent money on civic works, things that would help businessmen and people in the city, for example canals. He became friends with Erasmus Darwin, an important scientist and inventor. In 1780, Wedgwood and Darwin became business partners. Wedgwood's son married Darwin's daughter, who gave birth to Charles Darwin. Wedgwood and Darwin were also members of the 'Lunar Society', a group of important scientists, philosophers and businessmen.

Together with his friends in the Lunar Society, Wedgwood worked for the abolition (ending) of slavery. Wedgwood produced medallions asking for the end of slavery. These medallions became very popular. Wedgwood died in 1795. Selling slaves became illegal (against the law) in 1807 in Britain, and having slaves became illegal in 1833.




</doc>
<doc id="57050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57050" title="Tambourin">
Tambourin

A tambourin (pronounced the French way) is a piece of music which was popular in France in the 18th century. It is based on a folkdance from the Provence. The music is made to sound like the kind of drum which is called "tambourin" in French. Jean-Philippe Rameau wrote several Tambourins in his operas. Other composers who wrote Tambourins include François-Joseph Gossec and Maurice Duruflé.

Tambourin also means a special kind of drum from the Provence. It has a long, cylindrical shape and is played with one drumstick. It is found in orchestral music such as Georges Bizet's "L'Arlésienne Suite no. 2"


</doc>
<doc id="57051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57051" title="Category:Percussion instruments">
Category:Percussion instruments


</doc>
<doc id="57052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57052" title="Thomas Wedgwood III">
Thomas Wedgwood III

Thomas Wedgwood (1685-1739) was an English potter. He was a member of the Wedgwood family, who were very successful potters. He was the son of Thomas Wedgwood II and Mary Leigh.

Thomas Wedgwood was married to Mary Stringer. Their children were:



</doc>
<doc id="57053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57053" title="Thomas Wedgwood IV">
Thomas Wedgwood IV

Thomas Wedgwood (1716-1773) was an English potter. He was a member of the Wedgwood family, who were very successful potters. He was the son of Thomas Wedgwood III and Mary Stringer and brother of Josiah Wedgwood.

Thomas Wedgwood was married firstly to Isabell Beech. Their children were:


</doc>
<doc id="57054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57054" title="Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach">
Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach

Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach (8 March 1714–14 December 1788) was a German musician and composer. He was the second of the five sons of Johann Sebastian Bach and Maria Barbara Bach. Besides composing and playing music he wrote a book called Essay on the True Art of Playing Keyboard Instruments. Many people have learned by playing music from it. C.P.E. Bach is often credited as composing the first truly classical piano sonata.


</doc>
<doc id="57056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57056" title="Maria Barbara Bach">
Maria Barbara Bach

Maria Barbara Bach (20 October 1684–7 July 1720) was the wife of the German composer Johann Sebastian Bach. She was also the mother of the composers Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach and Wilhelm Friedemann Bach.


</doc>
<doc id="57057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57057" title="Category:Malta">
Category:Malta


</doc>
<doc id="57081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57081" title="Category:Cities in Alberta">
Category:Cities in Alberta


</doc>
<doc id="57082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57082" title="Category:Alberta">
Category:Alberta


</doc>
<doc id="57084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57084" title="Category:FIFA">
Category:FIFA


</doc>
<doc id="57085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57085" title="Category:Football competitions">
Category:Football competitions


</doc>
<doc id="57086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57086" title="Category:Football organizations">
Category:Football organizations


</doc>
<doc id="57087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57087" title="Ligue 1">
Ligue 1

Ligue 1 is a football league which is top division in France and Monaco.




</doc>
<doc id="57088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57088" title="Serie A">
Serie A

Serie A is a football league which is top division in Italy.




</doc>
<doc id="57089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57089" title="Category:UEFA">
Category:UEFA


</doc>
<doc id="57092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57092" title="Category:Wedgwood family">
Category:Wedgwood family


</doc>
<doc id="57102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57102" title="Oath">
Oath

An oath (from Anglo-Saxon "āð") is a promise. An oath is spoken out loud in front of other people who can see and hear what is done and said. They are witnesses to the oath. A person who cannot speak can make a sign that they are "taking an oath". Another way of saying that a person is "taking an oath" is to say that they are "swearing an oath". 

A person can say "I promise that I will do this..." or "I swear that I will do this..." 

When a person swears an oath they often show that the oath is very important to them by calling God to see and remember the promise, and to show that the promise is true, and cannot be taken back later. When a person takes an oath they sometimes raise their right hand, or put their hand on their heart, on the Bible or on another holy book.

Oaths are used in many situations when a person needs to be true to what they say: 

The word "oath" is often used to mean any angry expression which includes religious or other strong language and promises that the person will do something horrible. 



</doc>
<doc id="57103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57103" title="Jeffrey Archer">
Jeffrey Archer

Jeffrey Howard Archer, Baron Archer of Weston-super-Mare (born May 15, 1940) is a British author and politician. He was a member of Parliament, Deputy Chairman of the Conservative Party and since 1992 is a life peer. His political career ended after an for perjury. He is married to Mary Archer, a prominent scientist in solar power. 

Jeffrey Howard Archer was born in the City of London Maternity Hospital. When he was two weeks old he and his family moved to the seaside town of Weston-super-Mare, Somerset, where he spent most of his young life. 
At Oxford he was successful in athletics, competing in sprinting and hurdling. He also made a name for himself in raising money for the then little-known charity Oxfam, famously claiming to have obtained the support of The Beatles in a charity fundraising drive (it was actually Pat Davidson of Oxfam). The band accepted the invitation to visit the Senior Common Room of his Brasenose College, where they were photographed with Archer and dons of the college, although they did not play there. It was during this period that he met his future wife, Mary. His parents were John and Mary Archer who gave birth to him in 1940. Jeffery Archer only had one sibling and that was his brother, Thomas Archer who is a renowned politician for the conservative party.

At the age of 29, he was elected as a Member of Parliament (MP) for a Lincolnshire constituency, holding the seat for the Conservative Party in a by-election on 4 December 1969. 

In Parliament, Archer was on the left of the Conservative Party, rebelling against some of his party's policies. He urged free TV licences for the elderly and was against museum charges. Archer voted against restoring the death penalty saying it was barbaric and obscene. 

Archer had to resign because of a scandal in October 1986 when the Sunday newspaper "The News of the World" led on the story "Tory boss Archer pays vice-girl". The article claimed that Archer had paid Monica Coghlan, a prostitute, £2000 through another person at Waterloo Station to go abroad. Unlike the "Daily Star", the newspaper did not allege that Archer had actually slept with Coghlan. Archer sued the "Daily Star".

Archer had been selected by the Conservative Party as their candidate for the London mayoral election of 2000. He was forced to withdraw from the race when it was revealed that he was facing a charge of perjury.

On 4 February, 2000 Archer was expelled from the Conservative Party for five years. On 26 September, 2000 he was charged with perjury and perverting the course of justice (i.e., obstruction of justice) during the 1987 libel trial.

A few months before the beginning of the perjury trial, Archer began performing in the star role in a courtroom play (which he also wrote) called "The Accused". The play was staged at London's Theatre Royal Haymarket and concerns the court trial of an alleged murderer from beginning to end. The play used the innovation of assigning the role of jury in the trial to the audience, with theatre-goers voting on whether Archer's character was innocent or guilty at the end of each night's performance. Archer would attend his real trial during the day and be judged in his fictional trial at the theatre in the evening.

The real life trial began on 30 May, 2001. On 19 July, 2001 Lord Archer was found guilty of perjury. He was sentenced to a total of four years' imprisonment by Mr. Justice Potts. The most ironic aspect of his trial was that he had fabricated the alibi for the wrong date. Archer never spoke during the trial. Ted Francis was found not guilty of perverting the course of justice.

On 21 July, 2003 he was released on licence, after serving half of his sentence, from HMP Hollesley Bay, Suffolk. 

Many of Lord Archer's friends remained loyal to him.

In addition, Archer lost an £8m libel case about false accusations in his book twist of tales, portraying Major General James Oluleye to be a thief. Oluleye was a man who left a legacy of honesty and integrity for the future generations of Nigerians, See his book "Archetecturing a Destiny" and "Military Leadership in Nigeria".




</doc>
<doc id="57107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57107" title="Return to Oz">
Return to Oz

Return to Oz is a 1985 Disney movie that is considered to be a sequel of The Wizard of Oz.


</doc>
<doc id="57115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57115" title="Mordred">
Mordred

Mordred is a character from Arthurian legend. In some of the legends, he betrayed Arthur and killed him. He is said to be Arthur's son by Morgaine (also called Morgan or Morgana), his half-sister. Mordred was born at Caerlon. Mordred was also said to have been killed by Arthur after he stole Excalibur from him.


</doc>
<doc id="57118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57118" title="Miss America">
Miss America

Miss America is an American beauty contest.



</doc>
<doc id="57123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57123" title="Firewall (networking)">
Firewall (networking)

Originally, a "firewall" was a wall that was built to stop (or slow down) the spread of a fire. In terms of computer security, a firewall is a piece of hardware or software. The firewall is there to look at the traffic passing through it. Based on a set of rules, traffic can be allowed, or it can be blocked. A firewall therefore protects one part of the network against unauthorized access.

Data travels on the internet in small pieces; these are called packets. Each packet has certain metadata attached, like where it is coming from, and where it should be sent to. The easiest thing to do is to look at the metadata. Based on rules, certain packets are then dropped or rejected. All firewalls can do this.

In addition to the simple packet filtering (above) this kind of firewall also keeps track of connections. A packet can be the start of a new connection, or it can be part of an existing connection. If it is neither of the two, it is probably useless and can be dropped.

Application-layer firewalls do not just look at the metadata; they also look at the actual data transported. They know how certain protocols work, for example FTP or HTTP. They can then look if the data that is in the packet is valid (for that protocol). If it is not, it can be dropped.

Firewalls can provide a secure connection between two networks. This is called "tunnelling". The data may be encrypted. It is unencrypted at the other end. Since the firewalls are doing this, the rest of the network is unaware of it. An alternative is to provide a secure access (to the corporate network).

Very often, firewalls can translate IP addresses. That way, many computers can share a few public IP addresses. The firewall translates between the public and the private IP addresses.

In general, there are two types of firewalls:

Firewalls can protect against some problems (viruses and attacks) that come from the internet. They cannot protect against viruses, that come from infected media (like an infected office document on an USB flash drive).


</doc>
<doc id="57136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57136" title="The Cask of Amontillado">
The Cask of Amontillado

"The Cask of Amontillado" (sometimes spelled "The Casque of Amontillado") is a short story, written by Edgar Allan Poe.

The story is about a man named Montresor who wants to take revenge on Fortunato, though his motivation is not clear. It is during a in the city and Fortunato is dressed in a jester costume. Montresor tells Fortunato he has bought a special rare wine called amontillado but wants Fortunato to test it to be sure it is real. Montresor leads him into underground tunnels to test the .



</doc>
<doc id="57142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57142" title="Osei Bonsu">
Osei Bonsu

Osei Bonsu (died January 21, 1824) was the Asantehene (King of the Ashanti). He ruled from 1804 to 1824.


</doc>
<doc id="57143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57143" title="Uther Pendragon">
Uther Pendragon

Uther Pendragon is the father of King Arthur in the Arthurian legend.


</doc>
<doc id="57148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57148" title="Chocolate milk">
Chocolate milk

Chocolate milk is a kind of cold, sweetened milk drink made by mixing cold milk with chocolate syrup or cocoa powder and sugar.

In the United Kingdom this is known as a Chocolate milk shake.

A mixture of hot milk and melted chocolate (or cocoa powder and sugar) is called hot chocolate. A mixture of ice cream, cold milk, and chocolate syrup is called a milk shake.

It is widely accepted by the scientific community that chocolate milk is the primary form of sustainance for the organism known as a "mini Johsty." The mini Johsty grows and matures inside a fupa, where it is nourished by a constant supply of chocolate milk, pickles, mayonnaise, and microwave burritos. Any Planet Fitness sessions may injure or even destroy the mini Johsty residing in the fupa.



</doc>
<doc id="57149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57149" title="Chocolate syrup">
Chocolate syrup

Chocolate syrup is a thick, sweet, chocolate-flavored liquid. It is made from sugar and cocoa (or chocolate). Chocolate syrup is used to sweeten and flavor hot and cold drinks such as hot chocolate, chocolate milk, and chocolate milk shakes, and poured on desserts.

Chocolate syrup is used in many different types of drinks. Coffee shops add chocolate syrup and other flavored syrups to coffee drinks. Ice cream parlors add chocolate syrup to milk shakes.

Chocolate syrup is also used in many desserts. Ice cream parlors pour chocolate syrup on bowls of ice cream.


</doc>
<doc id="57150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57150" title="Wetsuit">
Wetsuit

A wetsuit is a garment used by scuba divers, snorkelers, windsurfers, and surfers to keep themselves warm when they are in cold ocean water. Wetsuits act as insulation, and help the body to retain its heat. Wetsuits are made of plastic or rubber materials such as neoprene. Wetsuits include torso coverings, leggings, head coverings, and hand and feet coverings. 

When people are doing diving or water sports in areas where the water is not very cold, they may only wear some parts of a wetsuit, such as a torso covering or leggings.

wet suits are garments that oceangoers wear!
it's very vital when going to th ocean and dive because it serves as a life and system protector.

Deepwater divers often wear full wetsuits that include torso coverings, leggings, head coverings, and hand and feet coverings. In very cold water, a scuba diver may need to wear a dry suit.



</doc>
<doc id="57151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57151" title="Touch rugby">
Touch rugby

Touch rugby is a version of rugby that replaces being tackled with being touched. It was invented by Australians who played rugby league and it has many of the same rules. 


</doc>
<doc id="57154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57154" title="Category:1788 deaths">
Category:1788 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="57155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57155" title="Category:1684 births">
Category:1684 births


</doc>
<doc id="57156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57156" title="Category:1720 deaths">
Category:1720 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="57158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57158" title="Category:Former countries in Asia">
Category:Former countries in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="57159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57159" title="Coven">
Coven

Coven is a word that first meant any type of meeting or gathering. It is used today to mean a group of witches. 


</doc>
<doc id="57161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57161" title="Category:Establishments by year">
Category:Establishments by year

"See also: "


</doc>
<doc id="57163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57163" title="Category:Disestablishments by year">
Category:Disestablishments by year

"See also: "


</doc>
<doc id="57164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57164" title="Category:3rd century BC establishments">
Category:3rd century BC establishments


</doc>
<doc id="57165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57165" title="Category:1st century BC disestablishments">
Category:1st century BC disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="57169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57169" title="Category:1739 deaths">
Category:1739 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="57170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57170" title="Category:1734 births">
Category:1734 births


</doc>
<doc id="57180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57180" title="First Geneva Convention">
First Geneva Convention

The First Geneva Convention is one of several Geneva Conventions. It is more formally known as the Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field, 1864. It covers the treatment of battlefield injuries and was made in 1864 as part of the making of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement.


</doc>
<doc id="57182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57182" title="Second Geneva Convention">
Second Geneva Convention

The Second Geneva Convention of 1906 is one of the Geneva Conventions. Its full title is Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field. It was made in Geneva, on 6 July 1906. It extended the principles from the First Geneva Convention of 1864 on the treatment of battlefield casualties. The Convention of 1906 should not be confused with "Convention (II) for the Amelioration of the Condition of Wounded, Sick and Shipwrecked Members of Armed Forces at Sea" (Geneva, 12 August 1949).

As of 27 June 2006, when Nauru adopted the convention, it has been ratified by 194 countries.




</doc>
<doc id="57183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57183" title="Disc jockey">
Disc jockey

A disc jockey (also called a DJ or deejay) is a person who plays recorded pop or dance music for dancers or listeners and introduces the names of the songs using a microphone. 

There are several types of DJs. A radio DJ plays recorded CDs on a radio station and announces the names of the songs. A club DJ plays recorded CDs over a PA system (an amplifier and loudspeakers) at a nightclub, rave, or disco. A hip hop DJ uses turntables and vinyl records to do scratching and make music while other hip hop musicians do rapping rhythmic type of singing). Reggae DJs play recordings of rhythm instruments and then rap or "toast" (made-up chanting and boasting) with a microphone.


</doc>
<doc id="57186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57186" title="Padniewko">
Padniewko

Padniewko is a village in Poland in Kuyavia-Pomerania voivodship. It has about 400 inhabitants and 4.95 km.


</doc>
<doc id="57188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57188" title="Sierra Nevada (US)">
Sierra Nevada (US)

The Sierra Nevada (Spanish for "Snowy Range") is a mountain range that is almost entirely in the eastern portion of the U.S. state of California. The range is also known as The Sierra and The Sierras. 

The Sierra Nevada stretches 400 miles (650 km), from Fredonyer Pass in the north to Tehachapi Pass in the south. It is bounded on the west by California's Central Valley, and on the east by the Great Basin.



</doc>
<doc id="57194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57194" title="Flurbereinigung">
Flurbereinigung

Flurbereinigung (pronounce: FLOOER-be-rye-nee-gung) is a word used in Germany to refer to the rearranging of fields in agriculture. During the second half of the 20th century Flurbereinigung has led to major changes in the landscape in the German countryside.

Many German farmers used to have several small fields which were not together but were in different places, some of them maybe two or three miles away from where they lived. This was particularly a problem in the area to the left of the Rhine which had been ruled by Napoleon, because in the 19th century, when a farmer and his wife had died, their land was shared between all their children, so it got divided into smaller pieces. In other parts of Germany only the eldest son inherited the land. 

Since the 1960s, people understood that it would be much easier for a farmer to have all his fields together so that he did not have to keep making journeys between lots of small fields. Larger fields are easier to manage and more economical. The German government encouraged farmers to swap some of their fields among themselves so that each farmer had his land all in one place.

In the last few years the government have realized that the way the changes have been made are not always good. Nature often suffers when hedgerows are taken away to make fields bigger. Flurbereinigung today tries to keep some of the hedgerows and small groups of trees which sometimes stand in the middle of fields. They are good places for birds to nest and other animals like to live there, too.

Winegrowers do not always find it a good thing to have all their land together. This is because the soil in one field may be slightly different from the soil in a field just farther up the road, and this gives the wine a slightly different taste. Also, if all their land is on one hillside and a storm hits that hillside and ruins the crops, then they have lost everything. If they have several pieces of land in different places they are less likely to lose all their crops because of one disaster.


</doc>
<doc id="57203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57203" title="Template:Infobox Network">
Template:Infobox Network


</doc>
<doc id="57204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57204" title="Template:Infobox Network/doc">
Template:Infobox Network/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
This infobox should not be used for television stations. 

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="57206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57206" title="Category:User be-2">
Category:User be-2


</doc>
<doc id="57207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57207" title="Category:User be-3">
Category:User be-3


</doc>
<doc id="57208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57208" title="Category:User be-4">
Category:User be-4


</doc>
<doc id="57209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57209" title="Category:User be-N">
Category:User be-N


</doc>
<doc id="57213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57213" title="Live 8">
Live 8

Live 8 was a rock concert organized by activist Bob Geldof. The concert took place in nine places at once on July 2, 2005. Like Bob's Live Aid concert, Live 8 was made for helping out African citizens who were not getting enough food and medicine. However, this concert was not for charity. Instead, it was held to make people aware of the famine in Africa. Bob wanted to make the political group named the G8 give more to Africa. The concerts featured singers like Paul McCartney, Juan Diego Flórez and U2.

In November 2005, the concerts were released on DVD. The money used to buy the DVD sets was also used to help Africans.


</doc>
<doc id="57231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57231" title="Template:Start box2">
Template:Start box2

<includeonly>{| class="wikitable" style="margin: 0.5em auto; font-size:95%;"
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="57232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57232" title="Template:Pl icon">
Template:Pl icon


</doc>
<doc id="57234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57234" title="Rigveda">
Rigveda

'Rigveda' is an ancient Indian religious book. It is counted as one of the four sacred Hindu writings, which are called Vedas. It is one of the world's oldest religious writings. It is also one of the oldest writings in an Indo-European language. Rigveda is very important to Hindus, especially Hindus in India and Nepal. It words are said during prayers and religious gatherings.

Rig Veda mainly contains various hymns for praying to Vedic Gods such as Agni (Fire God), Indra (The lord of Heavens), Mitra, Varuna (Water God), Surya (Sun God) etc. These hymns are called Riks. Hence the Veda is called Rik-Veda or RigVeda.


</doc>
<doc id="57246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57246" title="Ecozone">
Ecozone

An ecozone or biogeographic realm is the largest scale biogeographic division of the earth's surface.

These divisions are based on the historic and evolutionary distribution of plants and animals. Ecozones represent large areas of the earth's surface where plants and animals developed in relative isolation over long periods of time, and are separated from one another by geologic features, such as oceans, broad deserts, or high mountain ranges, that formed barriers to plant and animal migration. Ecozones correspond to the floristic kingdoms of botany or zoogeographic regions of mammal zoology.

Ecozones are characterized by the evolutionary history of the plants and animals they contain. As such, they are distinct from biomes, also known as major habitat types, which are divisions of the earth's surface based on "life form", or the adaptation of plants and animals to climatic, soil, and other conditions. Biomes are characterized by similar climax vegetation, regardless of the evolutionary lineage of the specific plants and animals. Each ecozone may include a number of different biomes. A tropical forest in Central America, for example, may be similar to one in New Guinea in its vegetation type, but these forests are inhabited by plants and animals with very different evolutionary histories.

The patterns of plant and animal distribution in the world's ecozones was shaped by the process of plate tectonics, which has redistributed the world's land masses over geological history.

The term ecozone, as used here, is a fairly recent development, and other terms, including kingdom, realm, and region, are used by other authorities with the same meaning. J. Schultz uses the term "ecozone" to refer his classification system of biomes.

In 1975 Miklos Udvardy proposed a system of 203 biogeographical provinces, which were grouped into eight biogeographical realms (Afrotropical, Antarctic, Australian, Indomalayan, Nearctic, Neotropical, Oceanian, and Palaearctic). Udvardy's goal was to create an integrated ecological land classification system that could be used for conservation purposes.

The WWF ecozones are based largely on the biogeographic realms of Pielou (1979) and Udvardy (1975). A team of biologists convened by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) developed a system of eight biogeographic realms (ecozones) as part of their delineation of the world's over 800 terrestrial ecoregions.

The WWF scheme is broadly similar to Udvardy's system, the chief difference being the delineation of the Australasian ecozone relative to the Antarctic, Oceanic, and Indomalayan ecozones. In the WWF system, The Australasia ecozone includes Australia, Tasmania, the islands of Wallacea, New Guinea, the East Melanesian islands, New Caledonia, and New Zealand. Udvardy's Australian realm includes only Australia and Tasmania; he places Wallacea in the Indomalayan Realm, New Guinea, New Caledonia, and East Melanesia in the Oceanian Realm, and New Zealand in the Antarctic Realm.



</doc>
<doc id="57249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57249" title="Biomass (ecology)">
Biomass (ecology)

In ecology, biomass means the cumulation of living matter. That is, it is the total living biological material in a given area or of a biological community or group. Biomass is measured by weight, or by dry weight, per given area (usually measured per square metre or square kilometre). 

The most successful animal, in terms of biomass, is the Antarctic krill, "Euphausia superba", with a biomass of probably over 500 million tons, roughly twice the total biomass of humans. 
Biomass may also be a measure of the dried organic mass of an ecosystem. 


</doc>
<doc id="57250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57250" title="Amorphous solid">
Amorphous solid

An amorphous solid is a solid in which there is no long-range order of the positions of the atoms. (Solids in which there is long-range atomic order are called crystalline solids or morphous). Most classes of solid materials can be found or prepared in an amorphous form. For instance, common window glass is an amorphous ceramic, many polymers are amorphous, and even foods such as "cotton candy" are amorphous solids.

Amorphous materials are often prepared by rapidly cooling molten material, such as glass.
Example: Glass, candle wax, cotton candy 




</doc>
<doc id="57256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57256" title="Climate commitment studies">
Climate commitment studies

Climate commitment describes the fact that climate reacts slowly to factors ("climate forcings") such as greenhouse gases. Climate commitment studies attempt to measure the amount of future warming that is "committed" under the assumption of some constant level of forcings.


</doc>
<doc id="57269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57269" title="Slipknot">
Slipknot

Slipknot is an American heavy metal band from Des Moines, Iowa. Slipknot has eight members in the band. The current band members are Sid Wilson, Joey Jordison, Chris Fehn, Jim Root, Craig Jones, Shawn Crahan, Mick Thomson, and Corey Taylor. Recently the bassist from Slipknot, Paul Gray, died from an accidental drug overdose. The surviving eight band members wear masks. The band has sold almost 15 million records worldwide.

In September 1995 a band was formed called The Pale Ones. The band had Shawn Crahan on drums, Paul Gray on bass, Anders Colsefini on vocals and Donnie Steele on guitar. Later Joey Jordison joined and became drummer, Crahan became a Percussionist. The band also hired guitarist Josh Brainard and moved Colsefini to percussion and vocals. The band performed their first concert on December 4, 1995, then they were called Meld. Joey Jordison suggested naming the band Slipknot, after a song they had made. The band started wearing masks because Shawn Crahan wore a clown mask and to get better into the music.
In February Steele left the band because of religious beliefs. Craig Jones was hired as a replacement. Jones later became their full-time sampler. They hired Mick Thomson as a replacement guitarist. On October 31, 1996, Slipknot released their first demo Mate.Feed.Kill.Repeat.

The band realized that their new songs needed more vocal melody, so they hired Corey Taylor. Colsefini became just a percussionist. At a show Colsefini announced that he was leaving the band. He was replaced by Greg Welts but he was fired from the band because he was lazy. Chris Fehn was hired as percussionist. In 1997 the band gave themselves numbers and wore coveralls while performing.

In 1998 DJ Sid Wilson joined after impressing the band. In 1999 Brainard decided to leave the band for personal reasons. Jim Root was his replacement. This left the band with the line-up they have kept ever since.

They became better known after giving some labels a five-song demo. They signed to Roadrunner records in summer 1998. They released their first album, named after the band (self titled) one year after signing to Roadrunner. The album had two singles (songs released separately from the album, but is still on the album). They went on tour and played at the Ozzfest. This made their fan base bigger. In early 2000, the album was certified platinum (selling 1,000,000 copies).

Their fans were waiting impatiently for a second release ("Iowa"), and recording started early 2001 in California. Band members argued over how long to go on live shows and recording times. Even so, they went ahead and released the album, and toured for it. The album had three singles, one of them appearing in a movie ("Resident Evil"). They sold all the seats in large arenas due to the large fan base. In 2002, the band took a break, and some members remade or started new bands and projects. 

With delays of recording another album ("Vol. 3: The Subliminal Verses"), the band went back to California for recording. When early 2004 came around, the album was finished and touring began. The album was released in May. The album had six singles. From the tour, the band created a live album (an album made up of live versions of songs). Some band members were in the Roadrunner United: The All-Stars Sessions, a mix album of artists signed to Roadrunner. In 2006 the band won their only Grammy Award for their song "Before I Forget." The band took another break, with various members going to other projects and bands.

The fourth album ("All Hope is Gone") was started in late 2007, but recording began in early 2008. The album was done in early summer 2008. The album had five singles. 2009 was 10 years since the release of their first album, so the first album was re-released as a special version. The tour for "All Hope is Gone" ended on Halloween night, 2009, and ended a third break for the band. Members went back to other projects and bands with singer Corey Taylor creating the band Junk Beer Kidnap Band. On May 24, 2010, bass player Paul Grey was found dead. Investigation showed a drug overdose killed him. Band members hesitated, or to have another thought about, speaking about the future of the band. Drummer Joey Jordison said another record was 'kinda already in the making.' Corey Taylor, however, said that he doesn't know whether or not to continue with Slipknot. 

Former member Donnie Steele will do Paul Grey's part while the band is playing live shows. Taylor told NME that he wants to continue, as it is what Paul would want. The band will complete and release a fifth album, but Taylor doesn't see recording soon. Jordison said that the band will go on without Taylor if he is to leave the band.



As of 2009, Slipknot has released four albums.

Among the main influences of the band can be named to Black Sabbath, Pantera, Metallica, Slayer, Sepultura, Iron Maiden, Carcass, Judas Priest, Korn, AC/DC, Kiss, Beastie Boys and Mushroomhead. Thrash metal has been mentioned several times as a great influence to define them, together with nu metal. Slipknot uses three types of guitars (main, rhythm and bass), two percussionists in addition to drums, and electronics (samplers and turntables). The band's sound has been described as "a threshing machine devouring a military drum corps." 
In their early work, the vocals vary widely, from occasional raps up to a throaty voice. Their most recent works include more melodic vocals, and raps have left. The words are always in a very aggressive tone, characterized by darkness, nihilism, anger, hatred, love, misanthropy and psychosis. Rick Anderson of Allmusic said the lyrics to Slipknot are "not generally quotable on a family website."

In an interview Paul Gray said: "The only word I hate is 'nu metal,' we have death metal, thrash metal, grindcore, is a bit of everything, you know?"



</doc>
<doc id="57300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57300" title="Archie Moore">
Archie Moore

Archie Moore (December 13, 1913 or 1916 – December 9, 1998) was an American boxer. He held the light heavyweight championship between 1952 and 1961. Moore won the title from Joey Maxim by unanimous decision in 1952. He later lost the belt because he did not defend the title enough. Moore also fought for the heavyweight championship twice. He lost to Rocky Marciano on September 22, 1955, and to Floyd Patterson on November 30, 1956, in both of those attempts. One of his last fights was to Cassius Clay, later known as Muhammad Ali. Afterwards, Moore was Ali's trainer for a short time.


</doc>
<doc id="57301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57301" title="Joe Frazier">
Joe Frazier

Joseph William Frazier (January 12, 1944 - November 7, 2011) was an American boxer. He held the world heavyweight championship from 1968 to 1973. Frazier also won a gold medal in boxing at the 1964 Olympic Games.

Frazier was born in Beaufort, South Carolina but moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He learned to box in Philadelphia. Frazier won the vacant world heavyweight title by beating Buster Mathis. He lost the title to George Foreman. Frazier's most famous fights came against Muhammad Ali. He beat Ali in their first fight in 1971 but lost the other two. The third fight was known as the "Thrilla in Manila.". He died on November 7, 2011 from liver cancer.



</doc>
<doc id="57302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57302" title="Hodgkin's lymphoma">
Hodgkin's lymphoma

Hodgkin's lymphoma, also known as Hodgkin's disease, is a cancer of the lymphatic system, also known as a lymphoma. It was first discovered by Thomas Hodgkin in 1832. It is one of many kinds of cancers of the lymphatic system. Most of the time, the cancer develops in a single lymph node before it spreads to the rest of the body. The symptoms of Hodgkin's lymphoma change as the disease progresses. At the first stage of the disease, the person may feel a lump on the affected lymph node that does not hurt when touched. The person may have strange fevers, sweating during the night, and itchy skin. In the later stages of the disease, the person may feel very tired and their spleen may grow larger.


</doc>
<doc id="57304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57304" title="Marvin Hagler">
Marvin Hagler

Marvin Hagler (born on May 23, 1954, in Newark, New Jersey) is an American former boxer. He was the world middleweight champion from 1980 to 1987. Hagler fought out of Brockton, Massachusetts. He won the championship from Alan Minter and successfully defended it twelve times before losing it to Sugar Ray Leonard. Hagler retired after that fight to live and work in Italy.


</doc>
<doc id="57308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57308" title="Sierra Nevada (Spain)">
Sierra Nevada (Spain)

The Sierra Nevada, meaning "snowy range" in Spanish, is a mountain range in the region of Andalusia in Spain. It contains the highest point of continental Spain, Mulhacén at 3,479 m.

It is a popular tourist destination, as its high peaks make skiing possible in Europe's most southern ski resort after Ski Centre on the island of Crete in an area along the Mediterranean Sea predominantly known for its warm temperatures and abundant sunshine. At its foothills is found the city of Granada and, a little farther, Málaga and Almería.




</doc>
<doc id="57309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57309" title="Airline">
Airline

An airline is a company that transports people and items using airplanes. An airline may have as few as one airplane or a fleet of hundreds of airplanes.

Most airlines offer regular flights between a group of airports.



</doc>
<doc id="57310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57310" title="Wax">
Wax

Wax (more precisely Beeswax) is a chemical substance. It is used by honeybees to build honeycombs. 
Beeswax (and other waxes) have the following properties:

Some waxes, like beeswax, carnauba (a vegetable wax), and paraffin (a petroleum wax) occur naturally. Another such wax is earwax, which occurs in the human ear. Other waxes may be manufactured.

Chemically, a wax may be an ester of ethylene glycol (ethan-1,2-diol) and two fatty acids. A fat is an ester of glycerin (propan-1,2,3-triol) and three fatty acids. A wax may also be a combination of other fatty alcohols with fatty acids. It is a type of lipid.


</doc>
<doc id="57313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57313" title="Polyethylene terephtalate">
Polyethylene terephtalate

Polyethylene terephthalate (aka PET, PETE or the obsolete PETP or PET-P) is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the polyester family. The chemical industry makes it. It is used in synthetic fibers; beverage, food and other liquid containers; thermoforming applications; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber. It is one of the most important raw materials used in man-made fibers. It is also used as the dielectric in multi-purpose capacitors (K73-16 series).

Depending on its processing and thermal history, it may exist both as an amorphous (transparent) and as a semi-crystalline (opaque and white) material. Its monomer can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct or the transesterification reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct. Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers (done immediately after esterification/transesterification) with ethylene glycol as the byproduct (the ethylene glycol is recycled in production).

The majority of the world's PET production is for man-made fibers (in excess of 60%) with bottle-making accounting for around 30% of global demand. In discussing cloth uses, PET is generally referred to as simply "polyester" while "PET" is used most often to refer to packaging applications. 


</doc>
<doc id="57321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57321" title="Template:RfA">
Template:RfA

<includeonly>

Ends on ""

"Candidate's acceptance:"

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="57322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57322" title="Nuclear energy">
Nuclear energy

Nuclear energy is the energy that holds together the nucleii of atoms. Atoms are the most simple blocks that make up matter. Every atom has in its center a very small nucleus. Normally, nuclear energy is hidden inside the atoms. However, some atoms are radioactive and send off part of their nuclear energy as radiation. Radiation is given off from the nucleus of unstable isotopes of radioactive substances. 

Nuclear energy can also be freed in two other ways: nuclear fusion and nuclear fission. Nuclear fusion is the combining of two atoms into one and nuclear fission is the splitting of an atom. Both ways make big amounts of energy. They sometimes take place in nature. Fusion is the source of heat in the sun. Fission is also used in nuclear power plants to make electricity. Both fusion and fission can be used in nuclear weapons.



</doc>
<doc id="57325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57325" title="Card Sharks">
Card Sharks

Card Sharks was a game show airing from 1978 to 2001.

Two contestants fought against each other in the main game—the returning champion and a challenging contestant. The returning champion was represented by the color red. The challenger was represented by the color blue. The host, Jim Perry, then asked a toss-up question, which was asked to 100 people before the show (example: "We surveyed 100 lawyers: Have you ever defended a person who you believed was guilty? How many lawyers said they have?"). The contestant he asked it to would provide what they thought the number of people who gave the answer the host gave. The other contestant would then say whether they thought the actual number was higher or lower than the first contestant's guess. Whoever is closer to the number got a chance at the cards.

There were two rows of five cards: the top red row (for the champion) and the bottom blue row (for the challenger). The contestant in control had to predict whether each card was higher or lower than the card before it.

There were two games. Whoever won both games would go on to play the Money Cards.

The winning contestant would then play the Money Cards to win more money. He/she was given $200 to start out with. They then had to predict whether each card was higher or lower than the one before it, just like before. This time, they had to bet money on each guess (example: $200 higher than a 2). The contestant worked their way across the bottom row, in which there were four cards, and then made it to the second row and were given $200 more. The least a person could bet on each card for the first two rows was $50. They then worked their way across that row, until they reached the top row, where there was only one card. That row was called the "Big Bet" row. There, the contestant had to bet at least half of what they won before.

Card Sharks aired on NBC from 1978 to 1981 and was hosted by Jim Perry. It returned on CBS and in syndication in 1986. The CBS version was hosted by Bob Eubanks and ran until 1989. The syndicated version was hosted by comedian Bill Rafferty, but ran until 1987.

In 2001, Card Sharks came back, hosted by Pat Bullard. However, this version had different rules than the other ones. In this one, two teams of two contestants (two at a time) had to guess higher or lower (or predict if the next card had exactly the same number as the previous one) on one row of seven cards. This version was not very popular and was cancelled after 13 weeks. Many Card Sharks fans say this version is the worst game show revival of all time.


</doc>
<doc id="57326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57326" title="Family Feud">
Family Feud

Family Feud is a television game show that has aired since 1976.

There are two families, each with five family members on their team. They have to guess the answers to a survey question asked to 100 people to win points for their team. The answers are seen on a huge survey board. Several survey questions are asked by host Steve Harvey. The point values are doubled at the third question, and they are tripled for the fourth question. If a fifth question is needed, only the #1 answer will be on the board. Whoever reaches 300 points or more will win the game and go on to play the bonus round, Fast Money.

Two members of the winning family are asked five questions, one member at a time. One member stays on stage and is asked the questions while the other member is off-stage. After the answers are given (or if the time limit, either 15 seconds or 20 seconds, is up), the answers and their point values are revealed. After that, the other member is asked the same five questions. If they give the same answer as the first member, a double-buzz will be heard, and the host will say, "Try again," after which another answer is given. Afterwards, the answers and their point values are revealed. If both contestants get 200 or more points, they win the grand prize.

From 1992 to 1995, a new round was introduced, called the "Bullseye" round from 1992 to 1994 and the "Bankroll" round from 1994 to 1995.

In the Bullseye round, each family member on each team went to the faceoff podium to try to get the #1 answer to a survey question. Each time they got it right, they won a dollar amount for their team's "bank." Each question was worth different dollar amounts, anywhere from $500 to $5,000. Whatever they won in this round was what they would play for in Fast Money.

In the Bankroll round, only one family member from each team went to the podium. Only three questions were asked this time; they played in all three questions.

The Bullseye round returned for John O'Hurley's last season in 2009. John O'Hurley did it the same way Ray Combs did. It was just like the old Bullseye round used from 1992 to 1994. However, it was thrown out again in 2010.

"Family Feud" aired on ABC from 1976 to 1985. A syndicated version aired from 1977 to 1985. Both were hosted by actor Richard Dawson, who became famous for kissing all of the female contestants.

In 1988, "Family Feud" returned on CBS and in syndication with a new host, comedian Ray Combs. In 1992, the CBS version was expanded to an hour and included the Bullseye round. It was given a new name: "The Family Feud Challenge". The syndicated version also got the Bullseye round in the Fall of that year and was named "The New Family Feud". In 1993, "The Family Feud Challenge" was cancelled. In 1994, Ray Combs was fired and Richard Dawson was brought back to host the syndicated version. He only lasted one year, until 1995.

In 1999, the new version came on in syndication, with comedian Louie Anderson as host. Many people did not like him, and in 2002, he was replaced by Richard Karn. In 2006, Richard Karn left the show and John O'Hurley took his place, and in 2010 John O'Hurley left and Steve Harvey took his place. The show is still on the air today.


</doc>
<doc id="57330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57330" title="Bank of America Stadium">
Bank of America Stadium

The Bank of America Stadium is a sports stadium located in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was built in 1996 for the Carolina Panthers. It used to be called Ericsson Stadium until it was renamed in 2004. The stadium seats 73,248 people.


</doc>
<doc id="57331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57331" title="Aston Martin">
Aston Martin

Aston Martin Lagonda Limited is a luxury car company that was started in 1913 by Lionel Martin and Robert Bamford.

The company name is derived from the Aston Clinton hill climb and one of the company's founders, Lionel Martin.

The company went in and out of business a few times between World War I and World War II. Lionel Martin left the company in 1926. The company was sold from one person to another many times until 1947, when David Brown bought it. David Brown also bought Lagonda, and used Lagonda engines in his cars. Aston Martin cars built when David Brown owned the company had the letters "DB" in the name. An Aston Martin won the 24-hour race at Le Mans in 1959.

David Brown sold the company again. The company was having trouble staying open in the 1970s. Victor Gauntlett bought part of the company and kept it going with help from buyers of other parts of the company. In 1991 the Ford Motor Company bought Aston Martin and started making DB cars again. Ford owned Aston Martin until 2007 when they sold it to Investment Dar and Adeem Investments.


</doc>
<doc id="57336" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57336" title="Sydney Opera House">
Sydney Opera House

The Sydney Opera House is a building on the shores of Sydney Harbour, in Sydney, Australia. It is shaped like the sails of a boat. Many concerts and events take place there. It is a famous tourist attraction.

The Sydney Opera House is out in the ocean. It is like a peninsula.
The land where the Opera House stands (Benolong Point) was once home to Port Macquarie, (built in 1817 and knocked down in 1901). On the 10th August 1902 the Port Macquarie tram depot was opened. It was knocked down in 1958. The Sydney Opera House was built on the same spot and the work began in 1959. 

It was designed by Danish architect Jørn Utzon. He won a design competition in 1957. Utzon left the project in February 1966 because the government was not paying his invoices. The building finally opening in 1973. The project was completed ten years late and over-budget by more than fourteen times. In 2001, he was invited back to restore the building and change it back toward his original designs.


</doc>
<doc id="57337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57337" title="Sydney Harbour Bridge">
Sydney Harbour Bridge

The Sydney Harbour Bridge, located in Sydney Harbour, is a bridge that joins north Sydney with south Sydney. People can cross the bridge by car, walking or by train. There is a tunnel that goes underneath. It is an important tourist attraction. The scenery attracts many tourists and people living in or near the city. One of the many attractions of the Harbour Bridge is its famous 'BridgeClimb'. 


</doc>
<doc id="57338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57338" title="Sydney Cricket Ground">
Sydney Cricket Ground

The Sydney Cricket Ground is a sports field in Sydney. Many professional sporting events take place there. These sports include cricket, rugby, and the Australian Football League.


</doc>
<doc id="57339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57339" title="Darling Harbour">
Darling Harbour

Darling Harbour is a harbour in Sydney, Australia. It has many shops and places to eat, and people like visiting it. It also has the Sydney Aquarium.


</doc>
<doc id="57340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57340" title="Bondi Beach">
Bondi Beach

Bondi Beach is a beach in Sydney, Australia, about one kilometre long and roughly seven kilometres from the centre of the city.
Bondi beach is one of the world's greatest beaches, and is one of Sydney's main tourist attractions.

Large numbers of tourists visit Bondi Beach throughout the year, and many Irish and British tourists spend Christmas Day there.

In 1809, a road builder William Roberts received a grant of land in the Bondi area. In 1851 Edward Smith Hall and Francis O'Brien bought 200 acres (0.81km2) of Bondi and named it the "Bondi Estate." Hall was O'Brien's father-in-law. In between 1855-1877 O'Brien bought his father-in-laws share of the land and named it the "O'Brien Estate". He made the beach and surrounding land available to the public as a picnic ground and amusement resort. As the beach became more popular O'Brien threatened to stop public access. The Government believed that the Municipal council needed to intervene. On the 9th of June 1882, Bondi Beach became a public beach.

Bondi Beach receives many visitors throughout the year ranging from 4000 people to 9000 people. Bondi Beach has an underwater shark net that they share with other beaches along the southern coast. In 2004 Surf Lifesaving Australia gave different hazard ratings to each end of the beach. The northern end was rated a gentle 4 with 10 as the most hazardous, while the southern end was rated a dangerous 7 due to the famous rip current known as the "Backpackers Express". The south end is generally reserved for surf board riding. Bondi Beach was added to the Australia National Heritage list in 2008.

Pods of whales and dolphins are sometimes sighted. Fairy penguins while rare are sometimes also seen.

Bondi Surf Bathers' Life Saving Club was the worlds 1st livesaving club. North Bondi Surf Livesaving Club is a federation club. Both clubs were founded in 1907. Both clubs were involved in the biggest rescue ever on one day known as 'Black Sunday'.



</doc>
<doc id="57341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57341" title="ANZ Stadium">
ANZ Stadium

Telstra Stadium is a sports stadium in Sydney, Australia. The 2000 Summer Olympics took place there. Now it is used for many other sports, like rugby and AFL. The stadium opened in March 1999 and was called Stadium Australia until 2002.

In 2002, the stadium was named after the sponsor Telstra. 1 January 2008 it was renamed the ANZ Stadium

As "Stadium Australia" the name was sometimes confused with the Sydney Football Stadium, which was formerly known as Aussie Stadium.


</doc>
<doc id="57342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57342" title="Sydney Aquarium">
Sydney Aquarium

The Sydney Aquarium is a public aquarium in Darling Harbour, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It has many fish, sharks and seals. There is also a seal show. The aquarium was opened in 1988.


</doc>
<doc id="57368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57368" title="Employment Non-Discrimination Act">
Employment Non-Discrimination Act

The Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) is a proposed U.S. law in the U.S. Congress. If voted into law, it would stop an employer from firing an employee because he or she is gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender. The law would not apply to churches and other religious organizations. It is also known as H.R. 2015. It was introduced on April 24, 2007.

The first proposed law to protect gay workers was introduced in the U.S. Congress in 1974, but none were voted into law. In 1996, the proposed law failed in the Senate by one vote. This is the first time a law has included "gender identity" in addition to "sexual orientation".

Currently, California, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington and Wisconsin have state laws that prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and/or gender identity.

This is intended to address cases where gay, lesbian, bisexual and/or transgender ("GLBT") employees have been discriminated against by their employer because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. These employees are not currently protected by the U.S. federal courts. 

Opponents of the law often argue that sexual orientation and gender identity are a choice, unlike other protected factors such as gender, race and religion, and thus should not be equally protected. They also often argue that homosexuality is "unnatural" or "immoral". They also often present religious arguments against the law. 

Previous bills have not included transgender people. The new bill would protect transgender people, and its inclusion has been debated in the GLBT community. In August 2004, the Human Rights Campaign – an important LGBT organization in favor of the bill – said it will only support the bill if it includes transgender people. 

In 1999, the [ngltf.org National Gay and Lesbian Task Force] was the first gay civil rights group to stop work on ENDA because it did not include transgender people. The group has worked to build approval in the community to support a bill that includes transgender people. It participated in redrafting the current "trans-inclusive" bill. 



</doc>
<doc id="57370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57370" title="Category:Guyana">
Category:Guyana


</doc>
<doc id="57372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57372" title="Category:Wikipedia bots">
Category:Wikipedia bots


</doc>
<doc id="57373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57373" title="Category:User tl-N">
Category:User tl-N


</doc>
<doc id="57374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57374" title="Cthulhu">
Cthulhu

Cthulhu (pronounced kuh-THOO-loo or kuh-loo-oo) is a fictional monster created by the horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. Cthulhu is a god-like being from another planet, and it (Cthulhu is neither male nor female) is supposedly very ancient. It has the appearance of being a large green dragon with the head of a squid.

Cthulhu is one of the Great Old Ones, a group of godlike monsters from another place that now inhabit Earth, waiting to rise up and destroy the human race so they can rule the planet. The Old Ones are neither good nor evil, meaning that they do not hate humans, they just do not care about them. They think of humans as if they would be ants. Also, their appearance is so unlike anything of this world, that it is said that any human who so much as gazes upon one of them will go insane.

In one of Lovecraft's tales, "The Call of Cthulhu", he said that Cthulhu currently lies in a dreamlike state in the sunken city of R'lyeh (rill-ee-yeh), waiting for the time when the Old Ones shall rise again. R'lyeh is located in the Pacific Ocean (though it is not a real city).


</doc>
<doc id="57376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57376" title="Category:User tokipona-N">
Category:User tokipona-N


</doc>
<doc id="57377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57377" title="Category:User java-4">
Category:User java-4


</doc>
<doc id="57378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57378" title="Category:20th century establishments">
Category:20th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="57380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57380" title="Category:20th century disestablishments">
Category:20th century disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="57383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57383" title="Category:4th century BC establishments">
Category:4th century BC establishments


</doc>
<doc id="57399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57399" title="Szczecin - Dąbie Airstrip">
Szczecin - Dąbie Airstrip

Szczecin - Dąbie Airstrip is a small airstrip on right side of the river in Szczecin (Poland) in Dąbie. It was built on grass in 1921 year. In Third Reich in this airport were a lot of domestic flights. After World War II to 23 May 1967, when airport was relocated to Goleniów, it was main airport of Szczecin, where LOT Polish Airlines has their flights. Now it is sport airstrip for small airplanes.


</doc>
<doc id="57414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57414" title="Diabetes insipidus">
Diabetes insipidus

Diabetes Insipidus is a medical condition caused when a hormone known as ADH does not appear in your blood. ADH is released from the Brain, and travels in the blood to the kidneys. Here, it pulls water out of the urine, which reduces the amount of urine stored in the bladder. 

If there is no ADH in the blood, the kidneys leave the water in the urine, and the bladder holds more liquid. This means you need to go to the toilet more often.


</doc>
<doc id="57419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57419" title="Caecilian">
Caecilian

The Caecilians are an order (Gymnophiona or Apoda) of amphibians. Most of them look like either earthworms or snakes. They mostly live hidden in the ground. For this reason, they are the least explored order of amphibians. As of 2007, they are widely unknown.

Caecilians completely lack limbs. For this reason, the smaller species resemble worms, while the larger species with lengths up to 1.5 m are similar to snakes. The tail is short and the cloaca is near the end of the body. Their skin is smooth and usually dark in colour. Some species have colorful skins, though. Inside the skin are calcite scales. This suggests that they may be related to the fossil Stegocephalia.Scientists believe that the scales are a secondary development. If this was the case, they would not directly have been inherited from Stegocephalia. Due to their underground life the eyes are small. Skin often covers them, to protect them. This has led to the idea that they are blind, which is not the case. Because of the skin cover, their "seeing" is limited to simple dark-light perception. They can tell the difference between dark and light. All Caecilians have two tentacles at their head. The tentacles are probably used for a second smelling capability in addition to the normal sense of smell based in the nose.

Most Caecilians have lungs. So far, only one species named "Atretochoana eiselti" is known that does not have lungs. As of 2007, there was only one sample of this species. That sample had been collected somewhere in South America. Those that have lungs also use the skin or the mouth to get oxygen. Often the left lung is much smaller than the right one. This is an adaptation to the shape of the body. It can also be found in snakes.

Caecilians can be found in most of the tropical regions of South-East Asia, Africa, the Seychelles islands and South America, except the dry areas and high mountains. In South America they can be found well into the temperate north of Argentina. They can be seen as far south as Buenos Aires, when they are carried by the flood waters of the Parana river coming from farther north. No studies have been made in central Africa, but it is likely that caecilians are found in the tropical rainforests there. The northernmost distribution is of the species "Ichthyophis sikkimensis" of Northern India. In Africa caecilians are found from Guinea Bissau ("Geotrypetes") until Northern Zambia ("Scolecomorphus"). In South-East Asia the Wallace Line is not crossed, and they are not found in Australia or the islands in between. "Ichthyophis" is also found in South China and North-Vietnam.

Caecilians are the only order of amphibians which only use internal insemination. The male Caecilians have a penis-like organ, the phallodeum, which is inserted into the cloaca of the female for 2 to 3 hours. About 25% of the species are oviparous (egg-laying); the eggs are guarded by the female. For some species the young caecilians are already metamorphosed when they hatch, other hatch as larvae. The larvae are not fully aquatic, but spend the daytime in the soil near the water.

75% of the species are viviparous, meaning that they give birth to already developed offspring. The fetus is fed inside the female with special cells of the oviduct, which are eaten by the fetus with special scraping teeth. Some larvae, such as those of "Typhlonectes", are born with enormous external gills which are shed almost immediately. The egg laying species "Boulengerula taitanus" feeds its young by developing a special outer layer of skin, which the young peel off with similar teeth. "Ichthyophis" is oviparous and is also known to show maternal care.

The diet of caecilians is not known well, though it seems it mostly consists of insects and invertebrates found in the habitat of the respecitive species. The stomach content of 14 specimens of "Afrocaecilia taitana" consisted of mostly undefinable organic material and plantal remains. Where identifiable remains were most abundant, they were found to be termite heads. While it was suggested that the undefinable organic material shows that the caecilians eat detritus, others believe these are in fact the remains of earthworms. Caecilians in captivity can be easily fed with earthworms, and worms are also common in the habitat of many caecilian species.

The name "Caecilian" derives from the Latin word "caecus" = blind, referring to the small or sometimes non-existing eyes. The name dates back to the taxonomic name of the first species described by Carolus Linnaeus, which he gave the name "Caecilia tentaculata". The taxonomic name of the order derives from the Greek words γυμνος ("gymnos", naked) and οφις ("ophis", snake), as the caecilians were originally thought to be related to snakes.

Taxonomically the caecilians are divided into 6 families. The species numbers are approximate and many of these species are identified on the basis of only one specimen. It is likely that not all species have been described yet, and that some of the species described below as different may be combined into one species in future reclassifications.

A Swiss researcher Daniel Hofer has recently found that certain caecilians produce potent skin poisons from specialized poison glands. The poison prevents predation and the poison of the bright yellow caecilian of São Tomé Island ("Schistometopum thomense") in West Africa kills other animals kept in the same tank within a few days. The chemical contents of caecilian poison have not been well studied. Werner Himstedt has shown that the skin glands of "Ichthyophis" protects the eggs from germs and fungi. It has also been shown that these poisons are very different from those from other amphibians such as the arrow poison frogs.

The hatchlings of the oviparous East African "Boulengerula taitanus" have special teeth that allow them to peel and eat their mother's skin. The mother's skin in this species was found to be thicker than normal and contained a high level of fat and other nutrients.





</doc>
<doc id="57426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57426" title="Bullet-proof vest">
Bullet-proof vest

A bullet-proof vest (also called "bulletproof vest", "body armor" or "body armour") is a protective piece of clothing that covers the torso (chest, abdomen, and back) of a person. It protects the wearer from most pistol and revolver bullets and from fragments of explosive devices such as grenades. Bullet-proof vests are worn by police officers, soldiers, security guards, and people who are at risk of being shot (such as the leader of a country).

Bullet-proof vests contain many layers of tightly-woven fabric such as Kevlar (or hard, strong materials such as ceramic or titanium) which can stop the metal pistol or revolver bullets or metal shell fragments from going into a person's body.

When a bullet hits a bullet-proof vest, the force of the bullet can seriously hurt the person wearing the vest even if the bullet does not pierce (make a hole in) the vest. 

A bullet from a strong sniper or machine gun can pierce a bullet-proof vest. 

If a bullet hits a body part that the bullet-proof vest does not cover, the bullet can hurt or kill the person wearing the vest.

The bullet-proof vests worn by most police officers and security guards are made with many layers of tightly-woven fabric such as Kevlar.

Bullet-proof vests for soldiers are heavier and stronger than the bullet-proof vests worn by police officers and security guards, because soldiers need protection from rifle and machine gun bullets. Bullet-proof vests for soldiers often have flat pieces of ceramic material or a strong metal such as titanium. These materials can stop bullets from many rifles and machine guns.



</doc>
<doc id="57428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57428" title="Dry suit">
Dry suit

A dry suit is a type of protective clothing worn by scuba divers who are swimming in very cold water, such as in the Arctic ocean or the North Atlantic ocean. A dry suit is similar to a wetsuit, in that it helps to insulate the diver's body from the cold of the ocean. However, a wetsuit lets water to touch the diver's body, but a dry suit is sealed so it does not allow water to touch the diver's body. This means that a dry suit offers more protection from the cold ocean water.


</doc>
<doc id="57430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57430" title="Gauntlet">
Gauntlet

A gauntlet is a protective covering that is used in some gloves and mittens. A gauntlet protects the wrists and the lower part of the forearm. Gloves or mittens for motorcycle drivers, snowmobile drivers, construction workers, forestry workers, and mountain climbers often have gauntlets. The gauntlet helps to protect the wrist and forearm from cold, and from being scraped or cut if there is an accident.

The gauntlet of a glove or mitten is usually made from a material that is similar to the protective fabric or material used elsewhere on the glove or mitten. A pair of leather motorcycle gloves with gauntlets will usually have leather gauntlets. A pair of insulated nylon snowmobilers' mittens with gauntlets will usually have gauntlets made from insulated nylon fabric.

The word "gauntlet" is sometimes used in the following figure of speech: "to throw down the gauntlet." If a person says that "Fred threw down the gauntlet at the committee meeting last night", they mean that Fred issued a public challenge at the committee meeting.

Another figure of speech is the phrase "run the gauntlet." This means to "face a trial or test." For example, if a sailor commits an offense, his comrades may form a line, and each comrade will hit the sailor as he passes by the line. This is called "running the gauntlet."


</doc>
<doc id="57431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57431" title="Nylon">
Nylon

Nylon is one of the most commonly used polyamides. Nylon is a silky material which was first used in toothbrushes. It is found in clothes, most polyamide that is produced is used for synthetic fibres in clothing. Nylon can also be used to make war materials, such as parachutes and ropes. Nylon was first produced on February 28, 1935, by Wallace Carothers at Du-Pont. Nylon is like silk in appearance. It is strong, hard and water resistant. It is used in manufacture of string, ropes,string for tyres, carpet, net for fishing and cloth or parachute.


</doc>
<doc id="57434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57434" title="Forearm">
Forearm

The forearm is the part of the human arm between the elbow and the wrist.


</doc>
<doc id="57436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57436" title="Mitten">
Mitten

A mitten is a type of protective clothing used to cover the hand. The word is usually used in its plural form ("mittens"), since people have two hands. Mittens are similar to gloves, in that they cover the hand and help to keep it warm in cold weather. However, while gloves have coverings for four fingers and a thumb, mittens only have a covering for all of the fingers, and for the thumb. 

Mittens are most commonly used for forming poorly shaped snowballs by young children. Invented in 1823, by Sir William Frederick Mitten, they became a sensation among dogs, children and small penguins alike.

Mittens keep a person's hands warm in very cold weather better than gloves. For this reason, people who do sports in very cold temperatures often wear mittens instead of gloves. Arctic explorers and snowmobile drivers in Northern Canada usually wear mittens in the extreme cold.

Mittens are often mistaken for incomplete gloves made by the world renowned shoemaker, Iche Leb dich. Mittens first became popular and spread to the Americas in the early 1800s. They are now most commonly used by Macy's in an attempt to prove that ALL fads will repeat themselves.

Mitten. Mitten, mitten.


</doc>
<doc id="57437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57437" title="Mountain climber">
Mountain climber

A mountain climber is a person who goes up mountains and cliffs. Mountain climbers use the strength of their arms and legs to climb up mountains. Many mountain climbers use ropes and wear special shoes and safety equipment.

Most mountain climbers go up mountains as a hobby or recreational activity. A small number of mountain climbers do mountain climbing as an occupation (or job). They get paid by outdoor clothing companies or universities to climb up mountains, or they are hired as a guide by recreational mountain climbers.

Climbing mountains can be dangerous; each year, people are seriously injured or killed from falling, being covered in an avalanche of snow, or getting too cold. To reduce the risks, mountain climbers learn how to climb safely. As well, they wear safety equipment such as helmets and use ropes, compasses, and first aid kits. 

Mountain climbers in snowy areas who face the danger of being buried in an avalanche of snow also bring other equipment, such as shovels, radio transmitters, and long poles (for finding people who are buried).


</doc>
<doc id="57440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57440" title="Figure of speech">
Figure of speech

A figure of speech is an way of saying a message. Many figures of speech are not meant to be understood exactly as they are said. 

A common figure of speech in North America is to say that someone "threw down the gauntlet." This does not usually mean that a person threw a protective wrist-covering down on the ground. Instead, it usually means that the person issued a public challenge to another person (or many persons).


</doc>
<doc id="57442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57442" title="Adobe Flash">
Adobe Flash

Adobe Flash is a proprietary computer program distributed by Adobe Systems. Adobe Flash and Adobe Flash Player are used to create and view animated content that can be placed on web pages. Adobe Flash is used commonly on the Internet by web browsers.

Flash was created by FutureSplash (a multimedia company) in 1995. Then it was called "FutureSplash Animator" (this was in fact Flash 1.0). FutureSplash along with Flash were soon bought by Macromedia around 1997, who in December 2005 was again bought by Adobe Systems. From Flash version 2 to 8 it was called "Macromedia Flash", now it is called "Adobe Flash". The current version is Adobe Flash 10.1, made in April 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="57450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57450" title="Inheritance (computer science)">
Inheritance (computer science)

In Object-oriented programming languages, inheritance is a way to add functionality. Object-oriented programming has the notion of classes (and perhaps interfaces). A "derived class" inherits most fields and methods from its parent class. It can modify the behaviour of the parent, by adding new fields and methods, or by modifying existing ones. Depending on the programming language used, there may be certain restrictions when extending a class. 

Inheritance can be used to solve different types of problems:

An example can be a Car class. You could create a Ferrari class which would inherit from Car, and also make a Toyota class which would also inherit from Car. This way, all the fields and methods (drive method, brake method, color field...) would also be inside of Ferrari and Toyota, and you wouldn't need to copy the code twice. However, maybe inside of Car you could have a brand field. This brand field would be equal to nothing, but inside of Ferrari the field might be equal to "ferrari" and in Toyota to "toyota". Of course, you couldn't just create a Car, because otherwise that field would be missing. In order to prevent people from just creating a Car, you turn the Car into an abstract class.


</doc>
<doc id="57454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57454" title="Michael Jordan">
Michael Jordan

Michael Jeffrey Jordan (born February 17, 1963) is a former American basketball player. Many people believe Jordan is one of the greatest basketball players to ever play in the NBA. He won six championships playing for the Chicago Bulls and head coach Phil Jackson. The Chicago Bulls team set a record by winning 72 games. Jordan was part of this team and played together with main men like Dennis Rodman, Scottie Pippen and Toni Kukoc. Jordan won two Olympic gold medals for basketball. His first gold medal was in 1984 as a college player and his second was in 1992 as an NBA player.

Jordan's father was named James and his mother's name is Deloris. James Jordan was murdered in 1993.

As a sophomore at Laney High School in Wilmington, North Carolina, Jordan did not make his school's varsity (main) basketball team. This inspired him to work harder, and he made the team the next year. In 1981, he went to the University of North Carolina to play. He averaged 13.5 points per game his freshman year, and 20 points per game his sophomore year. North Carolina won the national championship in 1982, Jordan's freshman year. Jordan made the winning shot with 18 seconds left in the championship game. After Jordan's junior year in college, he said that he would be leaving college to play in the NBA. The Chicago Bulls chose him with the third pick in the 1984 NBA draft.

In 1993, after winning three NBA championships in a row, Jordan said that he would retire and switch to a career in minor league baseball. He played for the Birmingham Barons, a minor league team in the Chicago White Sox's system, but hit only one home run during his whole baseball career. In 1995, Jordan announced that he would return to the NBA with a two word announcement: "I'm back". He was back in time to play for the Bulls in the 1995 playoffs, but the Bulls lost in the playoffs before reaching the NBA Finals. However, the next three seasons after that, the Bulls won the championship. This included the 1995-1996 season, when the Bulls won 72 games in the regular season and only lost 10. No NBA team has ever won more regular season games in one season. Jordan retired for a second time in 1998, but was still not done playing. He would buy part of the Washington Wizards basketball team, and played for the Wizards from 2001 to 2003, and ended his playing career after that.

Jordan is now the majority owner of the Charlotte Bobcats. He was chosen to enter the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2009.

 


</doc>
<doc id="57458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57458" title="Lawrence Taylor">
Lawrence Taylor

Lawrence Taylor (February 4, 1959) is a retired American football player who played for the New York Giants in the National Football League (NFL). Taylor was famous for sacking the other team's quarterbacks. After he retired he got in trouble for doing drugs. He has since stopped doing drugs. He also appeared on Dancing With the Stars in the 2009 season.


</doc>
<doc id="57460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57460" title="New York Giants">
New York Giants

The New York Giants are an American football team. They are a part of the National Football League (NFL). Even though they are called the New York Giants they do not play in New York. They play in East Rutherford, New Jeresy. New York is right across the Hudson river from East Rutherford, so they consider New York as home. The Giants play in New Meadowlands Stadium, which they share with the New York Jets.

The New York Giants started playing in 1925. They have won six NFL championships, including some before the Super Bowl era. On February 3, 2008, the Giants beat the New England Patriots (17-14) to win their third Super Bowl championship. The previous two Super Bowl victories came against the Denver Broncos and the Buffalo Bills (when they won the game on a missed last second field goal that went "wide right".) 


</doc>
<doc id="57461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57461" title="Hakeem Olajuwon">
Hakeem Olajuwon

Hakeem Olajuwon (born January 21, 1963 in Lagos, Nigeria) is a retired Nigerian-American basketball player. Olajuwon travelled all the way from his home country of Nigeria to play basketball in the United States. He won two National Basketball Association (NBA) championships with the Houston Rockets.


</doc>
<doc id="57465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57465" title="Ecomuseum">
Ecomuseum

An ecomuseum is a museum which shows things about the identity of a place. Many of the people who live in that place help to organize things in the museum. The ecomuseum tries to help the welfare and development of the local community.


</doc>
<doc id="57470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57470" title="Scottie Pippen">
Scottie Pippen

Scottie Pippen (September 25, 1965) is a retired American basketball player. He played for the Chicago Bulls of the National Basketball Association (NBA) for most of his career and won 6 championships with the Bulls, although he also played with Charles Barkley in 1999 for the Houston Rockets and the Portland Trail Blazers near the end of his career. 


</doc>
<doc id="57471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57471" title="Chicago Bulls">
Chicago Bulls

Chicago Bulls are a American professional basketball team. They play in Chicago, Illinois. The Bulls are a part of the National Basketball Association (NBA).

Michael Jordan played for the Chicago Bulls from 1984 until 1993 and from 1995 until 1998, leading the team to six NBA championships.


</doc>
<doc id="57472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57472" title="Barry Bonds">
Barry Bonds

Barry Bonds is an American Major League Baseball player. He holds the Major League Baseball career home run record with 762 home runs. He is currently a free agent. He is not signed with any team and is currently not playing baseball.


</doc>
<doc id="57473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57473" title="Bill Russell">
Bill Russell

Bill Russell (born February 12, 1934) is a retired American basketball player. Russell played for the Boston Celtics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He won 11 championships; 11 is the most anyone has ever won in American basketball history.


</doc>
<doc id="57493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57493" title="Dirge of Cerberus: Final Fantasy VII">
Dirge of Cerberus: Final Fantasy VII

Dirge of Cerberus is a third-person shooter roleplaying video game. It is a sequel to Final Fantasy VII. 

Three years after the what happened in Final Fantasy VII, a group of powerful SOLDIERs that nobody had seen before appear, stopping the peace enjoyed by the people of world. The members of this mysterious group are the ones who were trapped under the ruins of Midgar for three years- the Deepground SOLDIERs. The Deepground SOLDIERs want to call forth the final WEAPON, Omega, before it is supposed to be. But to do that, the DGS need Vincent Valentine to lead the way to Omega.

Vincent Valentine is chased by many members of the mysterious group. An chain of events leads Vincent to the truth about his past and forces him to be the leader again in a battle for the planet itself and all those living in it.

Reeve Tuesti, who used to be the Head of Urban Development at Shinra (and the remote controller of Cait Sith), is now the leader of the World Regenesis Organization, which looks after the planet and stops people from hurting it any more. Yuffie Kisaragi is another member of the organization, and several other characters from the original game provide the World Regenesis Organization with more help.

The game begins with a Full Motion Video showing the attack on the town of Kalm by Deepground soldiers. Vincent stops the attack, but encounters Azul and Shelke. Azul and Shelke are members of the Tsviets, Deepground's elite force of supersoldiers.


</doc>
<doc id="57499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57499" title="Diving suit">
Diving suit

A diving suit is a type of protective clothing worn by scuba divers when they swim underwater in oceans, lakes, and rivers. Diving suits help insulate the diver from the cold temperature of the water. There are several types of diving suits, including wetsuits and dry suits.


</doc>
<doc id="57500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57500" title="Kilt">
Kilt

A kilt is a ceremonial article of clothing worn in Scotland. It is made of a thick, woven fabric with a tartan (checkered) pattern. It resembles a pleated skirt except that it is worn by men. It is still worn during ceremonies by some Scottish and Canadian military units and by people who play the bagpipes (a Scottish wind instrument). It is also quite commonly worn by men at weddings.


</doc>
<doc id="57501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57501" title="Straitjacket">
Straitjacket

A straitjacket is a type of clothing used to restrain patients in mental health hospitals and psychiatric wards of hospitals. A straitjacket has straps that restrain a person's arms and hands. Hospitals put straitjackets on people who have mental illnesses such as schizophrenia or paranoia, to keep them from hurting themselves, other patients, or hospital staff.


</doc>
<doc id="57502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57502" title="Space suit">
Space suit

A spacesuit is an article of protective clothing worn by astronauts when they travel into outer space or into the upper atmosphere. Spacesuits are completely sealed, so that an astronaut can survive in the harsh, cold, and airless environment of space. Spacesuits have their own heating and cooling systems and a radio communication system. Spacesuits also provide a supply of fresh air for the astronauts to breathe and create a normal atmospheric pressure. Spacesuits cover the entire body, and they have gloves for the hands and a helmet for the head, including a clear visor for the face. Astronauts wear spacesuits when they fly in the space shuttle, rockets, or space stations.


</doc>
<doc id="57510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57510" title="Weasel">
Weasel

A weasel is a meat-eating mammal. It is a part of the genus "Mustela". At one time only one of the sixteen species of "Mustela" was called "weasel". This was the European Least Weasel ("Mustela nivalis"). Today, the term weasel is often used for all species of the group. Ten of the sixteen species have the word "weasel" in their common name. Those that are not called weasel include the stoat, the two species of mink, and the polecats or ferrets.
A group of weasels is called a pack, gang, confusion, or boogle.

Weasels length is from 12 to 45 centimetres (5 to 18 in), and usually have a red or brown upper coat and a white belly.They have long slender bodies, which enable them to follow their prey into burrows. Their tails may be from 22 to 33 centimetres (9 to 13 in) long.Weasels are famous for cleverness and guile.


</doc>
<doc id="57514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57514" title="Passport">
Passport

A passport is a travel document that says that the person carrying it is a citizen of the country on the passport. A passport asks that the person carrying it be allowed to enter and pass through other countries. They also allow a person to re-enter their country. Passports are given by national governments. 

Passports usually have a person's picture, signature, date of birth, nationality. Many countries are now making passports with biometric properties. This helps confirm that the person carrying a passport is the real owner. These countries have passports that use biometrics: Malaysia, Australia, Greece, New Zealand, Japan, Portugal, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States, Germany, Ireland, Poland, Italy, Slovenia, Singapore and Thailand.

In 1920, the International Conference on Passports, Customs Formalities and Through Tickets made a law that said passports must be issued in French and at least one other language. Now, many countries issue passports in English and the language(s) of the issuing country.



</doc>
<doc id="57527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57527" title="Category:Hong Kong">
Category:Hong Kong


</doc>
<doc id="57533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57533" title="University of Nottingham">
University of Nottingham

The University of Nottingham is a university in the city of Nottingham, in the United Kingdom. It has four different sites in the United Kingdom. It also has a site in China and a site in Malaysia. It was named the 'University of the Year' in 2006 by the London newspaper, The Times.

The University of Nottingham is ranked in the UK's Top 10 and the World's Top 100 universities by the "Academic Ranking of World Universities" and the "Times Higher Education - Quacquarelli Symonds World University Rankings".

Nottingham University is the fifth largest university in the UK. It is a member of:






</doc>
<doc id="57534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57534" title="Metastasis">
Metastasis

Metastasis is what happens when cancer spreads from its original place to another part of the body. Cancer cells spread from the original site to other places in the body by traveling through the bloodstream. When the cancer cells stick to a new place in the body, they grow and form another tumor there. 


</doc>
<doc id="57538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57538" title="Dingo">
Dingo

Dingo (plural: dingoes or dingos) is a mammal found in Australia and South-East Asia. Dingos are similar to domestic dogs. Dingos were brought to Australia from South-East Asia about 4000 years ago. They are not found in Tasmania as the sea levels cut the island off from mainland Australia about 10,000 years ago. Most dingos in the wild are no longer purebreed dingos. Their scientific name, "Canis lupis (wolf) dingo", changed recently from "Canis familiaris (dog) dingo". This was to show it is related to the white footed wolf which lives in Asia.

Dingos are usually between 117cm to 124cm in length. Their tail is about 30cm in length. They usually weigh between 10kg and 20kg. The colour of their fur is usually yellow-ginger, but can sometimes include tan, black, white or sandy colours. They live for about 14 years.

Dingos live in packs of between 3 and 12, but they can be seen alone as well. The leaders are the alpha male and the alpha female and are usually the only pair to breed. Young dingos are called "cubs". The breeding season is in March and April. After a gestation of 63 days, the adult females usually give birth to 4-5 cubs in a litter. Mothers will regurgitate food for the cubs to eat. They become independent of their mother after four to eight months of age.

Dingos do not bark like other dogs, but they do howl.

Dingos are carnivores and eat other animals such as kangaroos, wallabies, wallaroos, rabbits, rodents, lizards, sheep, calves, poultry and carrion. It believed to have hunted several animal species to extinction including some species of bandicoots and rat kangaroos. They often hunt in packs.

While some people keep dingos as pets, they are regarded as a pest by farmers. They are controlled by trapping, shooting, poisoning (with Sodium monofluoroacetate), and fences. The dingo fence which runs through South Australia, and then along the New South Wales border through to central Queensland is the world's longest fence. Dingos are protected in national parks and reserves.

It is illegal to have a dingo as a pet in South Australia, Queensland and Tasmania. In Victoria and the Northern Territory you have to nave a special permit to keep a dingo. The dingo can be a dangerous animal and have attacked people at times. On April 30, 2001, a nine year old boy was attacked and killed on Fraser Island by a dingo. A dingo is believed to have killed a baby, Azaria Chamberlain, at Uluru in August, 1980. This became a world famous case when her mother was sent to jail for murdering the baby. She was later found innocent and released. "Evil Angels", a book about Azaria by John Bryson, was made into a movie starring Meryl Streep.


</doc>
<doc id="57546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57546" title="Silk Road">
Silk Road

Silk Road was a group of trade routes (paths that traders followed) that went across Asia to the Mediterranean Sea. This let China trade with other places. 

It was named the silk road because there was a lot of silk traded along it. Silk was then only made in China. Because the traders came from many places, different ideas were brought to China, and China's ideas were taken to other places. The Silk Road earned China a lot of money. Some of the things the Chinese traded were silk, porcelain, rice, and spices.

Trade on the Silk Road was a big part in the growth of the ancient cultures of China, Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia, India, and Rome, and helped to make the beginning of today's world. Silk road is English for the German word "Seidenstraße". The first person who called it that was a German geographer (a person who studies the earth's surface) in the year 1877.

The Silk Road first travels west from North China. The part of the Silk Road on land splits into north and south roads to move around the Tibetan Plateau.

After the two parts come back together, it goes in an almost straight line west through mountains in north Iran and the north tip of the Syrian Desert to the Levant (Syria, Israel, Palestine). From there Mediterranean trading ships took routes to Italy, and land routes went north through Anatolia or south to North Africa.

The part of the Silk Road on water stretches from South China, to the Philippines, Brunei, Siam, Malacca, Ceylon, India, Pakistan, and Iran.

In Europe it stretches from Israel, Lebanon, Egypt and Italy. In the Mediterranean Sea, it goes to Portugal and Sweden.

The Buddhist religion and the Greco-Buddhist culture started to move east on the Silk Road, going to China from around the 100s BC.Trading also helped make many arts and crafts, brought different religions, and food to China. Chinese people helped build the Silk Road, They bought and sold with other people, and built up their culture. 
The Kushan empire, in the northwest part of India, was in the middle of these trades.

The Silk Road brought other cultures into Central Asia and China. It also helped the rise of the Mongol Empire, the largest land empire ever.

The Roman Empire, which bought a lot of Chinese goods, began to fall from power in the West around the 5th century. In Central Asia, Islam expanded starting in the 7th century. This brought a stop to Chinese west growth at a battle in 751 AD. More growth of the Islamic Turks in Central Asia from the 10th century stopped trade in that part of the world.



</doc>
<doc id="57549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57549" title="Isis">
Isis

Isis (pronounced or eye-sis) was a goddess in Egyptian mythology. She was the sister and wife of Osiris, and they had a son named Horus. Isis also protected children and was one of the greatest goddesses. She was also the greatest magician and goddess of magic.

The English pronunciation used, ), comes from the pronunciation of the Greek name, , which changed the Egyptian name by adding a final "-s" because of the grammatical requirements of Greek noun endings.

The Egyptian name was recorded as or and meant '(She of the) Throne'. However the true Egyptian pronunciation is not known because their writing system left out vowels. Based on recent studies, the reconstructed pronunciation of her name is * (ooh-saht). Later, the name in Coptic dialects was "Ēse" or "Ēsi".

To make it easier to say, Egyptologists choose to say the word as "ee-set". Sometimes they may also say "ee-sa". This is because the last "t" in her name was a feminine (female) suffix which is known to have been dropped in speech in the last stages of the Egyptian language.

Isis had great healing powers along with her being a magician and a protector. She could even cast spells on Ra. An example of her powers is when Isis brought Osiris back to life for one night. Though the powers of Isis are strong, there are even things she could not do like she could only bring back Osiris to life for a night.

Isis had a sun disk and horns on her head. She appeared as a queen. Sometimes, Isis is called the egg of the goose because Geb is the father of Isis and goose represents him. She also had the throne sign on her head.

Many Egyptian gods and goddesses started in one place, and all through their history had their own city where they were worshipped, and many big cities and towns are known as the hometowns of their god or goddess. However, no local cities where Isis was worshipped have been found; all through her early history there are no known temples to her. Worship of Isis did not start until as late as the 30th dynasty; until that time Isis was worshiped in temples of other gods or goddesses. However, even in the 30th dynasty Isis was worshiped together with Horus and Osiris. Temples to Isis became common in the Roman times. There was a temple built to her at Philae.

By this time, temples to Isis began to spread outside of Egypt. In many places her followers took over the worship to the Semitic goddess Astarte, because of the similarity of names. In the Hellenic era, because she was known as a protector, and mother, she also became the goddess of sailors.

In all parts of the Graeco-Roman world, Isis became one of the most important figures of the "mystery religions", and many classical writers sometimes wrote about her temples, and followers. Temples to Isis were built in Iraq, Greece, Rome, even as far north as England where the remains of a temple were found at Hadrian's Wall. At Philae, she was worshiped until the 6th century, after the rise of Christianity. The fall of her temples is usually said to mark the end of ancient Egypt.

Little information on Egyptian priests of Isis has been found, but we know that there were both priests and priestesses of her followers all through her history. By the Graeco-Roman era, many of them were healers, and were said to have many other powers, including explaining dreams and the power to control the weather by braiding or combing their hair.

The Greek scholar Plutarch, in "Isis and Osiris", writes of Isis: ""she is both wise, and a lover of wisdom; as her name appears to denote that, more than any other, knowing and knowledge belong to her."" and that the shrine of Isis in Sais carried the inscription ""I am all that hath been, and is, and shall be; and my veil no mortal has hitherto raised."" 




</doc>
<doc id="57550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57550" title="Osiris">
Osiris

In Egyptian mythology, Osiris was the god of life, death, and the flooding of the Nile. He was the brother and husband of Isis. They had a son named Horus. Osiris was murdered by his brother Seth because Osiris was pharaoh, which Seth wanted to be. Osiris was killed when Seth tricked him into getting into a box, then pouring lead onto the box to seal it so Osiris could not get out of it. However, Isis brought Osiris back to life for one night. After Horus was old enough, he defeated Seth and became the pharaoh. Osiris' mother was goddess Nut, father Geb, sister Nephthys, and wife and sister Isis.

By the Hellenic era, Greek awareness of Osiris had grown, and attempts had been made to merge Greek philosophy, such as Platonism, and the cult of Osiris (especially the myth of his resurrection), resulting in a new mystery religion. Gradually, this became more popular, and was exported to other parts of the Greek sphere of influence. However, these mystery religions valued the change in wisdom, personality, and knowledge of truth, rather than the exact details of the accepted myths on which their teachings were overlayed. Thus in each region that it was exported to, the myth was changed to be about a similar local god, resulting in a series of gods, who had originally been quite distinct, but who were now synonymous with Osiris. These gods became known as Osiris-Dionysus.

Egyptian civilization loved Osiris because he was a wise and gentle king. He taught them law and order and led them away from savage practices like cannibalism and human sacrifice. Osiris also taught them the art of agriculture and the appropriate rites for worshipping the gods. When he was done civilizing the people in Egypt, he left the country to his wife Isis and made peace in many other places. When finished his job he then returned to Egypt.
Osiris was the god of the Underworld. He was also one of the Nine Gods. One of his duties as Lord of the Dead was to do the very last judgment of the Dead, and after that to protect people from the dangers of the Underworld. The transition between life and death must have been a great experience, but still perilous.
Osiris was shown in the form of a mummified pharaoh. He wore a white atef crown with feathers on the side, and held a crook and flail; tools of a pharaoh. Osiris had green skin, symbolizing rebirth to the Egyptians.


</doc>
<doc id="57557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57557" title="ISO 3166-2:BR">
ISO 3166-2:BR

ISO 3166-2:BR is an ISO standard which defines geocodes: it is the subset of ISO 3166-2 which applies to Brazil. It covers 1 Federal District and 26 states.


</doc>
<doc id="57558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57558" title="Privy Council of the United Kingdom">
Privy Council of the United Kingdom

Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council is a group of advisors to the British Monarch. A lot of its most important work is done by two committees, 

Some laws need to be made by the "Queen-in-Council", that is at a meeting of the Queen and the Privy Council. Some jobs are filled by the Queen in Council too. For example when the Queen appoints a new Bishop or Lord Lieutenant she announces her choice at a meeting of the Privy Council.

Once someone is made a member of the Privy Council they are a member for life, but only members of the government are asked to meetings, except for special occasions such as when a new monarch takes the "Accession Oath", a promise to do their best, at a meeting when the Privy Council called the "Accession Council" 

In the past some kings and queens were bored by long meetings of the Privy Council, so they made everyone stand instead of sitting comfortably. The tradition carries on today.

Sometimes the Prime Minister shares information with other politicians on "Privy Council Terms". This means that the information must stay secret.

The Law Lords, and retired Law Lords, also form the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. It is the final court of appeal from British colonies an dependent territories, and some commonwealth realms. These countries call it an appeal to "The Queen in Council".



Four republics in the commonwealth also use the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council as a court of appeal.


From the Court of Appeal of Brunei the only appeal is to the Sultan of Brunei. The Queen and the Sultan have agreed that the cases are heard by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council who then advise the Sultan, directly.

The committee hears Appeals to Her Majesty in Council:





Very rarely the Committee hears:





The committee must also report to the Queen about anything she ask. For example investigating which members of the House of Lords supported the enemy in World War I.


</doc>
<doc id="57560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57560" title="MediaWiki:Ipbreason-dropdown">
MediaWiki:Ipbreason-dropdown



</doc>
<doc id="57562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57562" title="Patrician">
Patrician

A patrician was a member of the upper class in the two social classes in ancient Rome. They were wealthy and powerful. The other class was the plebeian class.




</doc>
<doc id="57570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57570" title="Template:Flagcountry">
Template:Flagcountry


</doc>
<doc id="57582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57582" title="W.A.S.P.">
W.A.S.P.

W.A.S.P. is an American heavy metal band. The band was formed in 1982 in Los Angeles, California by Blackie Lawless, Rik Fox, Randy Piper and Tony Richards.








</doc>
<doc id="57584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57584" title="Virginia Tech massacre">
Virginia Tech massacre

The Virginia Tech massacre was a school shooting incident on April 16, 2007, which took place at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, a college in Blacksburg, Virginia, United States. Cho Seung-Hui, a senior English major at Virginia Tech who had been diagnosed with and was treated for a severe anxiety disorder in the past, killed 32 people before killing himself (suicide). The killings occurred in two separate attacks on the campus.The first at around 7:15 a.m., when two students were shot and killed at West Ambler Johnston Hall, a co-ed residence hall that houses 894 students. More than two and a half hours later, 31 others, including Cho, were shot and killed across Norris Hall, which houses the Engineering Science and Mechanics program among others, where three main doors had been chained. Victims were found in different locations around the building.

The number of people that died was more than any other mass shooting in modern U.S. history. Up until today, the deadliest campus shooting in United States history was in 1966 at the University of Texas, where Charles Whitman climbed to the 28th-floor observation deck of a clock tower and opened fire, killing 16 people before he was gunned down by police. In the Columbine High attack in 1999, two teenagers killed 12 fellow students and a teacher before killing themselves.


</doc>
<doc id="57588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57588" title="Category:Skating">
Category:Skating


</doc>
<doc id="57589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57589" title="Category:Figure skaters">
Category:Figure skaters


</doc>
<doc id="57595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57595" title="Category:Equations">
Category:Equations


</doc>
<doc id="57597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57597" title="Category:Thermodynamics">
Category:Thermodynamics

Thermodynamics is related to the physics of heat, work, temperature, energy, and entropy.


</doc>
<doc id="57600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57600" title="Shakira">
Shakira

Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll (born 2 February 1977), known as Shakira, is a two-time Grammy Award-winning and eight-time Latin Grammy Award-winning Colombian singer, songwriter, instrumentalist, record producer, dancer and occasional actress.

Shakira is also a philanthropist. She has created the NGO's Pies Descalzos Foundation in Colombia, and the Barefoot Foundation in the US, to help children world-wide.

Shakira is also known for having made a song named "Timor" based on fighting in East Timor between gangs (groups of criminals with guns), security forces (small, personal armies), and the government.



</doc>
<doc id="57603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57603" title="Joe Louis">
Joe Louis

Joe Louis (born Joseph Louis Barrow on May 13, 1914, died April 12, 1981) was an American boxer. He was the world heavyweight champion from 1937 to 1949. Louis won the title from James Braddock. He made a record twenty-five title defenses before giving up the title in 1949.

Perhaps his most famous fight was his one-round knockout of Max Schmeling, the German former heavyweight champion, in 1938. Schmeling had given Louis his only loss up to that point, and was widely seen at that time as a representative of Nazi Germany. The buildup to the fight was wrapped up in the politics of the United States versus Nazi Germany.

When World War II began, Louis signed up for the U.S. Army. While in the army, Joe boxed 100 exhibition bouts.

Louis died of a heart attack on April 12, 1981. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery.

He has an arena named after him, the Joe Louis Arena where the Detroit Red Wings play.



</doc>
<doc id="57605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57605" title="Larry Holmes">
Larry Holmes

Larry Holmes (born on November 3, 1949) was an American boxer. He held the world heavyweight championship from 1978 to 1985. Holmes fought out of Easton, Pennsylvania. He was nicknamed the "Easton Assassin."

Holmes won the vacant World Boxing Council championship from Ken Norton in 1979. He defended that title, and later the International Boxing Federation title, twenty times. Some notable fighters he beat in defense of his championship were Muhammad Ali, Leon Spinks, Gerry Cooney, and Tim Witherspoon. He lost his championship to Michael Spinks in 1985.

Holmes later fought Mike Tyson and then Evander Holyfield to try and win back the championship. Tyson knocked him out in the fourth round and Holyfield beat him by a twelve-round decision.

Holmes continued to fight until 2002.



</doc>
<doc id="57608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57608" title="Skiing">
Skiing

Skiing is either sportive or recreational activity using "skis" for sliding over snow. Skis are used with special boots connected to them with a "binding". There are two different types of skiing: downhill skiing and cross country skiing. 

Downhill skiing is a sport. Skiers ski down a trail (also called a "run") on the side of a mountain or hill. Each trail is marked with a sign that shows how difficult that particular run will be. Three different colors are used to rate the difficulty of the trail. They are: green, blue, and black. Green trails are easiest, blue trails are more difficult, and black trails are rated most difficult. The colors which represent a trail will also be seen in a shape. 

The most common ratings for trails are:

Cross country skiing is a sport of endurance. Skiers ski anywhere where there is snow. This is usually through a scenic forest or town.



</doc>
<doc id="57611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57611" title="1966 FIFA World Cup">
1966 FIFA World Cup

The 1966 FIFA World Cup was the eighth FIFA World Cup. It was held in England from July 11 to July 30. England was chosen as hosts by FIFA to celebrate 100 years of football in England. England won the final beating West Germany 4-2. This was England's first (and so far only) World Cup win. England also became the first host to win since Italy won it in 1934. Later Germany, Argentina and France won it at their homes.








England won the championship.



</doc>
<doc id="57615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57615" title="Princess Taiping">
Princess Taiping

Princess Taiping was a princess of Tang dynasty China. She was the daughter of Emperor Gaozong and Empress Wu Zetian. She became an important figure during her mother's rule as Empress in the second Zhou dynasty 690-705 AD.

Princess Taiping supported saving the Tang dynasty and the Li family. After the death of Empress Wu Zetian in 705, Princess Taiping joined with her nephew Li Longji (later Emperor Xuanzong) to get power for the Tang dynasty again. In 710, she and Li Longji stopped Empress Wei's plan to gain power.

Princess Taiping was also known for her beauty. In the Chinese history (mishi/秘史), it has been said that, after losing two marriages, Princess Taiping loved Li Longji. Mishi said that Emperor Xuanzong told of his love for his aunt in his autobiography. Li Longji confessed that he had fallen in love with Princess Taiping at first sight. He thought of her as a goddess-like figure. However, the truth is still unknown.

After Emperor Xuanzong became ruler in 712 AD, Princess Taiping's old age and power was seen as a threat to the young emperor, and she was given a death sentence to kill herself in 713 AD.


</doc>
<doc id="57616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57616" title="Horus">
Horus

Horus was a the Egyptian god of the Sky. He was the son of Isis and Osiris. After fighting his uncle Seth, he became the king of Egypt. During this fight, he lost his eye. The "Eye of Horus" became one of the most important symbols in ancient Egypt.

The Eye of Horus was a powerful amulet. It was a sign of protection. It was also called the Wadjet Eye. The ancient Egyptians worshiped Horus partly because he had the Eye of Horus.

Horus, was worshiped all over Egypt, especially in Pe, Bendet and Khem. There were many falcon gods before Horus, but eventually Horus represented all of them. He was worshiped until the end of the Pre-Dynastic period. In Upper Egypt (south), in the town of Edfu, was Ptolemaic, a temple for Horus. In Kom Ombo, there was another temple for Horus called the Kom Ombo temple. Horus was a good friend of Sobek.

Horus was considered handsome and usually appeared as a falcon or a falcon headed man, although sometimes he appeared as a falcon headed crocodile. Sometimes he would take the form of a celestial falcon with his left eye the moon and his right eye the sun, his speckled breast feathers the stars, the down sweep of his wings creating the winds. He is sometimes shown with a copper knife. In addition, he normally wore the double crown to signify his rule over all of Egypt and to relate with the Pharaoh. 

Horus was the god of the sky. The pharaoh ruling at any given time of Egypt was always the living image of Horus. When he died, that pharaoh became Osiris, the god of the dead and the father of Horus. The new pharaoh became Horus. His purpose was to protect the pharaoh. He was a protector god, who was a god who fought evil. He represented justice and righteousness. He fought with Seth. He did this to avenge his father, Osiris, who was killed by Seth (See more in Seth article.) When Horus defeated Seth, he conquered his father, Osiris', throne, and became protector.




</doc>
<doc id="57618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57618" title="Seth">
Seth

In Egyptian mythology, Seth (also spelled Sutekh, Setesh, Seteh, Set) was a god. He was the god of the desert and evil.

The word 'Seth' was first said as 'Set'. Because of changes in the Egyptian language over the 3,000 years that Seth was worshiped, the 't' in Set was pronounced so similarly from 'th' that the Greeks wrote it as Seth during the Ptolemaic period. Seth was originally responsible for protecting Ra during his journey in the afterlife, personally slaying the great serpent Apep. Later, Seth killed his brother Osiris who had succeeded Ra out of jealousy. Horus(Osiris and Isis' son) eventually defeated Seth and claimed the throne. 

Seth had three siblings. His brother was named Osiris and his sisters were named Isis and Nephthys who was also his wife. He also had a nephew Horus. Nephthys married Seth and Isis married Osiris. Seth and Nephthys had a son named Anubis. His mom and dad were Geb and Nut.

Seth was the god of desert storms and thunder. His color is red which represented evil in Egypt. He also possessed people when he wanted to. 
Seth is often shown as a mysterious and unknown creature called the set, an animal.The set animal had a curved snout, square ears, dog-like body, forked tail, red eyes and red hair. 


</doc>
<doc id="57620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57620" title="Shaka Sankofa">
Shaka Sankofa

Shaka Sankofa aka Gary Graham born Gary Lee Graham (September 5, 1963 - June 22, 2000). Sankofa was put to death for the murder of fifty-three year-old Bobby Lambert in Houston, Texas on May 13, 1981. The murder happened when Sankofa was seventeen.

Sankofa was found guilty of shooting Lambert in the parking lot of a Houston supermarket. He told police that he had done ten robberies that week, but did not kill Lambert. The government believed he has done as many as 22 robberies which had happened in that area during that time. One of these included Graham using a shotgun to rob a man who Graham gave a ride to when the man's car stopped working on the highway. During that robbery, the man tried to escape and was shot by Graham but he did live. While there was no physical evidence to link Graham to the murder, one woman was in the parking lot at the time and saw him do it. She said she heard the gunshot and turned on the lights of her car. She saw Graham as he started running and followed him out of the parking lot with her car. There were several other people inside the store but none of them saw the shooting. Sankofa's supporters brought his case international attention, aruging that his conviction was based on the testimony of a single eyewitness who said she saw him for a few seconds in the dark parking lot committing the murder 
and she was 30 feet away from the murder scene. The jury did not hear testimony from six other apparent eyewitnesses who believed that Sankofa was not the killer.

Sankofa put to death after many legal tries by his lawyers to stop it. These including an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. By a vote of 5 to 4, the Supreme Court refused to stop the execution. Sankofa's lawyers also filed a civil suit saying the execution was against his civil rights. District Court Judge James Nowlin rejected that claim.

Many people believe that Sankofa did not kill Lambert. They believe that his lawyers did not do a good job because they thought he was guilty. Sankofa was put to death on an evidence of one person alone. None of the people that saw the man in the store and said this man was 6 inches shorter and thinner than Sankofa were used in the court case. Sankofa's lawyer at the time of his execution believed that the only person who saw the crime was not to be trusted because of how the police dealt with how she identified him. A gun found with Graham when he was arrested a week later was not the murder weapon. Most controversial of all is the fact that weapon used to kill Lambert did not produce any Gary Graham's fingerprints.

Some groups still claim he did not do this crime. Sankofa's supporters brought his case international attention. They also say that it is against international law to put someone to death for a crime they did before they became an adult of 18 years of age.
Such unprecedented convictions based on sole witness are rare but they happen in USA, other known example was Larry Griffin who was executed in 1991. 

There are groups to this day trying to clear Shaka of murder.

Gary Graham's last statement


</doc>
<doc id="57623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57623" title="Juliusz Słowacki">
Juliusz Słowacki

Juliusz Slowacki (September 3, 1809 - April 3, 1849) was a Polish poet. He was born on August 23, 1809, according to the Old Calendar. September 4 is often given as his birthday but the calculation between days was wrong by one day. Slowacki is thought of as being as good a poet as most of the famous Polish writers. These include Mickiewicz, Norwid, Reymont (author of "Chlopi"), Wybicki, Krasinski and Sienkiewicz. He is buried in Wawel Cathedral in Krakow. This is the same crypt as Mickiewicz. 

His work included poems, plays and sonnets included "Balladyna", "My Testament", "King Ghost", "Fantazy", "Kordian", "Beniowski", "Agamemnon’s Tomb", "Silver Dream of Salomea", "Hymn", "Lilia Weneda" and "Anhelli". 

Slowacki was first buried on April 5 1849 in Paris's famous Montmartre cemetery. Because he was not popular at the time, only about 30 people went to his funeral. In 1927, General Joseph Pilsudski ordered his body be dug up. It was taken back to Poland and honorably reburied on June 28 1927 in Krakow in the famous Wawel crypt for Polish nobles. He was buried with full military honors as Polish hero. Pilsudski said: "Time to forget Slowacki is over, as long as there is Polish language, Slowacki will live on forever!"

Prominent Poles


</doc>
<doc id="57625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57625" title="Mistreat">
Mistreat

Mistreat is a pro-white hard rock/Oi!/Rock Against Communism band from Finland. The band was formed in 1988.




</doc>
<doc id="57626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57626" title="Category:W.A.S.P.">
Category:W.A.S.P.

Pages relating to W.A.S.P


</doc>
<doc id="57637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57637" title="Red dwarf">
Red dwarf

A red dwarf is a kind of star. "Dwarf" means small. Red dwarf stars are all smaller than half the size of the Sun. They are smaller and colder than other stars. Red dwarfs burn their fuel slowly, so they shine less light than hot stars. 

Almost all stars are the red dwarf kind of star. The closest star to the Earth is named Proxima Centauri. Proxima Centauri is a red dwarf. 

Red dwarfs can live trillions of years. A red dwarf dies when it burns all of its fuel. This fuel is the chemical element hydrogen. When there is not enough hydrogen, the red dwarf becomes smaller and colder. Because it is smaller and colder, it shines less light.

Red dwarfs are small stars that are around 0.2 solar mass (the sun is equal to 1 solar mass), this is small for a star but is still 60,000 times the mass of the earth. They are formed in nebulas, like all stars are, and originally they are proto stars. They start their nuclear fusion about 10,0000 years after being created when they get their red glow, this is also where they get their heat. These stars burn at about 10,000°C. After trillions of years they fade to brown stars which are large lumps of rock and iron.


</doc>
<doc id="57644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57644" title="Ali Khamenei">
Ali Khamenei

Grand Ayatollah (Persian: آیت‌الله سید علی حسینی خامنه‌ای "ayatollah Seyyed `Ali Ḥoseyni Khamene'i") (born 17 July 1939), also known as Seyyed Ali Khamene'i, is the current Supreme Leader of Iran. He was the president of Iran from 1981 to 1989.


</doc>
<doc id="57645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57645" title="Canon Law">
Canon Law

Canon law is the term used for the internal ecclesiastical law of many churches, such as the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Churches and the Anglican Communion of churches. 

The Roman Catholic Church has the oldest continuously functioning legal system in the Western World. It is older than the common and European civil law traditions. What began with rules ("canons") adopted by the Apostles themselves at the Council of Jerusalem in the First Century led to a highly complex and original legal system that included norms of the New Testament, of the Hebrew (Old Testament), Roman, Visigothic, Saxon, and Celtic legal traditions with thousands of years of human experience. 





</doc>
<doc id="57648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57648" title="Category:Iranian people">
Category:Iranian people


</doc>
<doc id="57649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57649" title="Category:Islamic people">
Category:Islamic people


</doc>
<doc id="57650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57650" title="Category:People by religion">
Category:People by religion

These categories are for religious leaders and people well known for their religious beliefs. For people notable for their existence in a belief's doctrine and teachings, see the category for the religion itself. (ie. Jesus, Muhammad)


</doc>
<doc id="57658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57658" title="Mstislav Rostropovich">
Mstislav Rostropovich

Mstislav Leopoldovich Rostropovich (born Baku 27 March 1927; died Moscow, 27 April 2007) was a Russian cellist and conductor. Most musicians say that he was the greatest cellist who ever lived. He played the cello with an amazing technique and musicianship, and asked lots of composers to write cello music for him. He got into trouble with the political leaders of the Soviet Union because he said that people should be free to say their own ideas and opinions. In 1974 he was exiled from his country and continued his career as cellist and conductor in the west. He worked hard to support peace and justice in the world. In November 1989, when the Berlin Wall came down, he took his cello there and sat outside by the ruins of the wall and played. He was allowed back to his own country after the collapse of communism. He received lots of medals and honours.

Mstislav Rostropovich was born in Baku in Azerbaijan which was then part of the Soviet Union. His family were very musical. His mother played the piano and his father played the cello. He had studied with Pablo Casals.

During the Second World War the family moved to Orenburg. He went to the Children’s Music School there and started playing in concerts. In 1943 he went to the Moscow Conservatory to study the cello and composition. His composition teacher was Dmitri Shostakovich. They were lifelong friends and Shostakovich wrote a lot of cello music for him.

Rostropovich won all the best prizes at the Conservatory and was soon very famous. Lots of Russian composers wrote music for him: Reinhold Glière, Aram Khachaturian, Nikolai Myaskovsky and Sergei Prokofiev.

In 1955 he married Galina Vishnevskaya who was a famous soprano in the Bolshoi Opera. Rostropovich was a brilliant pianist and accompanied his wife when she sang recitals.

When he was 29 he became a Professor of Cello at the Moscow Conservatory. Shortly after that he played for the first time in England, performing the Cello Concerto by Dvořák at the Royal Festival Hall. A month later he played at the Carnegie Hall in New York. People had not yet heard of him and the hall was nearly empty. However, the next time he played there the hall was sold out in a few hours.

In 1960 he gave the first British performance of Shostakovich’s Cello Concerto no1. He met Benjamin Britten and they became great friends in spite of the fact that they could not speak one another’s language. Britten wrote cello music for him, including the "" and a Sonata for Cello and Piano. He performed a lot at the Aldeburgh Festival where Britten lived.

He started conducting in 1968. He conducted Tchaikovsky’s opera "Eugene Onegin" with his wife singing the main part of Tatyana. Some people thought his conducting was too full of emotion.

In 1970 he got into trouble with the Soviet politicians because he wrote a letter to the papers saying that the writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn was being unfairly treated. Solzhenitsyn had written about the injustices in the Soviet Union and about life in the labour camps. Solzhenitsyn was not allowed to write any more. Rostropovich let Solzhenitsyn live in his home. The Soviet politicians were angry, so Rostropovich and his wife left the Soviet Union and lived in London, Paris and New York. The Soviet politicians said that they were no longer Soviet citizens. In Switzerland they were allowed to have Swiss passports.

Rostropovich became conductor of the National Symphony Orchestra of Washington, DC. He often conducted the London Philharmonic Orchestra and lots of other famous orchestras. He was a great teacher who inspired lots of young cello students. He made a very large number of recordings. 

After the Soviet Union collapsed Gorbachov allowed them to return to Russia. They had homes in Moscow and St Petersburg where they started a foundation for children who were ill. Rostropovich became ill with cancer and died in Moscow on 27 April 2007.


</doc>
<doc id="57661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57661" title="Category:American football">
Category:American football

Articles about the sport of American Football (or Gridiron football).


</doc>
<doc id="57668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57668" title="Category:Cellists">
Category:Cellists


</doc>
<doc id="57679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57679" title="New Super Mario Bros.">
New Super Mario Bros.

New Super Mario Bros. is a platformer video game made and sold by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS game console. It is the first Mario platform game in 2D on a handheld console since "" in 1992. It was first sold in stores in North America on May 15, 2006, and was later sold in stores in Japan on May 25, 2006, in Australia on June 8, 2006, and in Europe on June 30, 2006. A sequel, New Super Mario Bros. Wii for Nintendo Wii, was released in November and December 2009.

Mario and Princess Peach are out for a walk when Bowser Jr. kidnaps Peach. Mario must go through eight worlds to save her.

The game uses many old features from older Mario games. The countdown game clock is back; if Mario does not reach the castle at the end, he will lose a life. Mario also must jump and catch onto a flagpole at the end of the level and goes into a castle, just like he did in "Super Mario Bros.". Before and after a level, Mario is on a world map, which was last used in "Super Mario World".

Mario also has new powers from the 3D games ("Super Mario 64" and "Sunshine"). He can do a ground pound and can do a triple jump in the air. Both of these things first started in the 3D games.


</doc>
<doc id="57681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57681" title="Galina Vishnevskaya">
Galina Vishnevskaya

Galina Vishnevskaya (born Leningrad, 25 October, 1926) is an opera singer and recitalist.

Vishnevskaya was born in Leningrad, the town which is now called St Petersburg. In 1952 she won an important competition singing a song by Rachmaninoff and an aria by Verdi. She soon became a member of the famous Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow. 

In 1960 she sang the part of in Aïda at the National Theatre in Sarajevo. In 1961, she made her first appearance at the Metropolitan Opera as Aïda and the next year she sang in the Royal Opera House in the same role. In 1964 she sang Aïda at La Scala.

Vishnevskaya was married to the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich from 1955 until his death in 2007. Her husband, as well as being a great cellist and conductor, was also an excellent pianist and he accompanied her for her recitals. They were very close friends of Shostakovich and Benjamin Britten and performed a lot of their works. She made many recordings including the main part in Shostakovich's opera Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District and in Britten's "War Requiem". She had not been allowed to take part in the first performance of the "War Requiem" because the Soviet politicians would not let her sing together with the baritone Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau because he was German. 

In 1974, they left the Soviet Union because they had criticized the Soviet government. They settled in the United States and Paris. In 1982 she retired from singing in opera. Her last role was in Paris where she sang Tatyana in Tchaikovsky's "Eugene Onegin".

After the collapse of communism and the Soviet Union she and her husband were allowed to return from exile and live in Russia again. In 2002 she opened her own opera theater in Moscow: The Galina Vishnevskaya Opera Center.



</doc>
<doc id="57682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57682" title="Category:Sopranos">
Category:Sopranos


</doc>
<doc id="57683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57683" title="Category:Singers by vocal range">
Category:Singers by vocal range


</doc>
<doc id="57684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57684" title="Category:Singers by nationality">
Category:Singers by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="57685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57685" title="Category:Russian singers">
Category:Russian singers


</doc>
<doc id="57694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57694" title="Voting system">
Voting system

The voting system is a set of rules about the way people vote and how the votes are counted. Different countries have different voting systems. There are many different types of voting system. One of the first voting systems to be used is called "first-past-the-post". Under this system each voter writes an "x" next to their chosen candidate. At the end, the votes are counted. The candidate with the most votes wins. Some people think that first-past-the-post is unfair because they believe that many votes are wasted.




</doc>
<doc id="57696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57696" title="Single Transferable Vote">
Single Transferable Vote

Single Transferable Vote (STV for short) is a type of voting system. It is used to elect more than one person.

Write a number "1" next to your favourite candidate, a number "2" next to your second favourite, a number "3" next to your third favourite and so on.

Each candidate needs a certain number of votes to be elected. This number depends on how many people are voting and on how many people are to be elected. 

Then the number "1" votes for each candidate are counted. But it can happen that one candidate or several candidates have more than the needed number of votes. These candidates are elected. But since they have more votes than they needed, they pass on the votes which they do not need to other candidates. Which candidate or candidates get those "surplus" votes depends on the voters' number of "2" votes given on the ballots papers of the candidates that have already been elected. If those number "2" votes make another candidate win and have him too many votes, this new "surplus" is passed on again, using number "3" votes, and so on. 

If not enough candidates have been elected so far, the candidate with the fewest votes is excluded. Votes for this candidate are passed on to the candidate given as the next preference of each of his voters (the next higher number in each listing of candidates). This may help to elect another candidate. If not, the next candidate which now has the fewest votes is excluded. 

Passing on the "surplus" votes and excluding the weakest candidates goes on until the needed number of candidates has been elected.




</doc>
<doc id="57698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57698" title="Individual Savings Account">
Individual Savings Account

An Individual Savings Account is called an ISA. It is a special type of bank account in United Kingdom. It was started on 6 April 1999. Before that, Personal Equity Plans (PEPs) and Tax-Exempt Special Savings Accounts (TESSAs) where used. You can put £3600 or less in an ISA every year. It is special because you do not pay any tax on the interest you get.


</doc>
<doc id="57699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57699" title="Bound For Glory">
Bound For Glory

Bound For Glory is a Neo-Nazi thrash metal/Rock Against Communism band from Minnesota, USA. The band was formed in 1989.



</doc>
<doc id="57700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57700" title="Neo-Nazism">
Neo-Nazism

Neo-Nazism means the ideology of some political groups who want to return to the beliefs and practices of Nazism after the end of World War II. Different groups have their own sets of beliefs and practices. These often include: loyalty to Adolf Hitler, hating Jews (anti-Semitism), racism, xenophobia (hating and fearing foreigners), extremist nationalism, white supremacy, militarism, and hatred of homosexuals (homophobia). Neo-Nazis often use the symbols of Nazi Germany such as the Swastika.


</doc>
<doc id="57723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57723" title="Israeli West Bank barrier">
Israeli West Bank barrier

The Israel-West-Bank barrier is a wall being built by the State of Israel to separate Palestinian territories from Israel. It is built mostly of fences and in some places it is built of high concrete walls.

There are many arguments about the barrier. People who want the barrier say it is needed to protect Israeli civilians from Palestinian terrorism, including suicide bombing attacks. Since the barrier was built, the number of attacks has gone down.

People who are against the barrier say that it is against international law because Israel and the Palestinians have not agreed where the border between them should be. Israel has built the barrier without consensus. This will make talks about deciding the borders more difficult.


</doc>
<doc id="57725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57725" title="Hammer (piano)">
Hammer (piano)

A piano uses hammers - pieces of wood covered with felt - to hit the strings. The vibration of the string makes a sound. When a person presses a note on the piano keyboard, the hammer is made to hit the string. The harder the note is pressed, the harder the hammer hits, and the louder the sound becomes. There is one hammer for every note on the keyboard. 


</doc>
<doc id="57727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57727" title="Joey Maxim">
Joey Maxim

Joey Maxim (born Giuseppe Antonio Berardinelli March 28, 1922 - June 2, 2001) was an American boxer. He was the light heavyweight boxing champion of the world from 1951 to 1952. Archie Moore beat him by decision over 15 rounds for the light heavyweight championship in 1952. During Maxim's time as champion, he beat Sugar Ray Robinson in a title defense. He also tried to win the heavyweight championship during this time, but Ezzard Charles beat him by a unanimous decision.

In 1954, Maxim gave future world heavyweight champion Floyd Patterson his first pro defeat by close unanimous decision in eight rounds.



</doc>
<doc id="57744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57744" title="Armed Islamic Group">
Armed Islamic Group

The Armed Islamic Group (GIA, from French "Groupe Islamique Armé"; Arabic "al-Jama'ah al-Islamiyah al-Musallaha") is an Islam terrorist organization based in Algeria. It wants to overthrow the Algerian government and replace it with an Islamic state. The GIA adopted violent tactics in 1992 after the military government did not recognise the victory of the Islamic Salvation Front in the first round of elections held in December 1991. The Islamic Salvation Front was the largest Islamic opposition party at the time.

Between 1992 and 1998 the GIA led a violent campaign. They killed many civilians. Sometimes they wiped out entire villages in its area of operation (see List of Algerian massacres of the 1990s; notably the Bentalha massacre and Rais massacre, among others). Since announcing its campaign against foreigners living in Algeria in 1993, the GIA has killed more than 100 expatriate men and women in the country. The group uses assassinations and bombings, including car bombs. It is known to favor kidnapping victims and slitting their throats. The GIA is considered a terrorist organization by the governments of Algeria, France and the United States. Outside of Algeria, the GIA established a presence in France, Belgium, Britain, Italy and the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="57746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57746" title="Takfir wal-Hijra">
Takfir wal-Hijra

"Takfir wal-Hijra"' (Arabic تكفير والهجرة - "Excommunication and Exodus") is a violent Islamic extremist group. The group that was founded in Egypt in the 1960s. Today Takfir wal-Hijra has members or supporters in several other countries, allied to Al-Qaeda . In Spain the group is also known as "Martyrs for Morocco". 

Members of the group are radical Islamists. It looks like the members of the group are not bound by the usual Islamic religious constraints. They adopt non-Islamic appearances. They might shave their beard or wear a tie. They do this to be hard to detect in crowds. Sometimes, even other Muslims have problems detecting them. They can drink alcohol and even eat pork to deceive their enemies. They believe that any means justify the end and, that killing other Muslims can be justified in their cause and that Western society is heathen and it is their duty to destroy it.

Little is known about the current organization or hierarchy of the group. Several groups which adhere to the same ideology have possibly used the name independently of each other.


</doc>
<doc id="57748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57748" title="Ma'at">
Ma'at

In Egyptian mythology, Ma'at, pronounced as *Muʔʕat (Muh-aht), is goddess of law, morality, and justice. Ma'at was seen as being charged with controlling the stars, seasons, and the actions of both people and gods. Her first role in Egyptian mythology was the weighing of words that took place in the underworld, Duat.

The purpose of Ma’at (also called Mayet or Maae't) was to keep order, truth, and justice. She placed the dead man's heart on the other side while her husband Thoth wrote down the results of the scale to see if that person was evil or good and if they would have a happy afterlife or be eaten by the devourer. Without Ma’at, the universe would become chaos once again. Ma’at also weighed the heart of the deceased against her feather of truth on a scale during the journey to the afterlife. If the dead person’s heart was heavier than the feather, then it had done evil deeds like lying when it was alive. When that happened, the heart was devoured by a monster and was not able to go to the afterlife. If it was lighter than the feather, then it was allowed to go onto the afterlife.

 
Ma’at had dark skin and hair. She was usually shown wearing a white linen dress. She, like Isis, was a winged goddess and she wore lots of armbands and necklaces made from gold and jewels. Her feather of truth was strapped to her head. Like the other gods and goddesses, she wore the black eye makeup around her eyes and on her eyebrows which is known as "kohl", which showed her high ranking status.

The chief judge in charge of the Egyptian law courts was known as “The priest of Ma’at.” He began court hearings wearing the feather of Ma’at. The person that won his case got to have the feather of Ma’at. The guilty party had violated Ma’at, and it was assumed that he or she would suffer failure, poverty, sickness, blindness and deafness, with the final judgment waiting in the court of the dead. Tomb robbery was considered one of the most heinous crimes, and might involve 100 strokes of a cane, five bleeding cuts added or brands as a sign of permanent dishonor. Often, the entire family of the guilty suffered as well. For example; when individuals were sentenced into exile there children were automatically outlawed with them. Ma’at represented truth, order, balance and justice in the universe. This concept said that everyone, not including slaves, should be viewed as equals under the law. The king made sure that was carried out, and he/she would decide the case and the proper justice, maybe asking his viziers who often acted as judges. Even the lowliest fisherman was allowed to bring a legal case to the viziers.

All goddesses including Ma'at had power over the Egyptians, and different powers over the other gods. One of the powers Ma'at gave the gods was the ability to breath air. Like the water of life, Ma'at's potion brought an afterlife after death to the peaceful and law-abiding people, but death to violent and cruel people. Ma'at was very powerful, but she still had limits to her powers. She could not make the sun travel through the sky like Ra could, she could not control the netherworld like Osiris could, and she could not make the stars shine like Nut(goddess) could but she still had her own unique powers like her potion.

The Pharaohs prime task in governing was to uphold Ma’at and they often held seated images of Ma’at in their hand to the gods, which indicated that the Pharaoh represented the divine order. The words “I have done Ma’at, were spoken by several Pharaohs and several others called themselves, “Beloved of Ma’at.” Even the gods were sometimes shown praising Ma’at. People were interested in how they could please her but they also were afraid of her. It was said that a small image of Ma’at was more pleasing to the gods than piles of rich offerings. It was also said that a little truth was welcomer than huge bribes. 

There was only one temple for Ma'at in Karnak but she was still worshiped in all Egyptian temples. In every Egyptian temple one area was called the hall of two truths or the hall of Ma'at. In the hall of two truths Ma'at weighed a man's heart against the feather of truth to see if the man would have an afterlife or his heart would be eaten by, the devourer.

Ma'at as a principle was at least partially codified into a set of laws, and expressed a ubiquitous concept of right from wrong characterized by concepts of truth and a respect for and adherence to a divine order believed to be set forth at the time of the world's creation. 

The doctrine of Ma'at is represented in the declarations to Rekhti-merti-f-ent-Ma'at and the 42 negative affirmations listed in the Papyrus of Ani:




</doc>
<doc id="57749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57749" title="Sermon on the Mount">
Sermon on the Mount

The Sermon on the Mount is a Biblical speech by Jesus of Nazareth to his followers and a large group of people around AD 30. Jesus gave the speech on the side of a mountain. The most popular part of the speech is the Beatitudes, which are at the beginning of the speech. The sermon also contains the Lord's Prayer. Other popular lines from the Sermon on the Mount are "turn the other cheek", "salt of the Earth", "light of the world", and "judge not, lest ye be judged". 

Many Christians believe that the Sermon on the Mount is related to the Ten Commandments. They believe that is very important in explaining how Christians should act towards others.

One of the most important debates over the sermon is how it should be applied to everyday life. Almost all Christian groups have created their own ways to understand and use the sermon in their lives. McArthur lists twelve basic schools of thought on these issues:

The author Christopher Knight says in his book "Hiram Key", that the 'Sermon on the Mount' did not happen. He thinks that Matthew 'stuck all kinds of passages together as though they were spoken one after another to a crowd on a mountain top.' Knight believes that 'the teachings were drafted into this one 'occasion' to avoid interrupting the flow of the overall story.' The "Hiram Key" was created by both Christopher Knight and Robert Lomas.

E. Earle Ellis (Professor of Theology) says that this sermon is Jesus asking believers to live in a way that will be standard in the future kingdom of God. As Ellis says, we are to speak Jesus' words, think his thoughts, and do his deeds. Since this will be the ethic of the future kingdom of God, people should live their lives in a way that will help them be ready to live in God's kingdom.



</doc>
<doc id="57752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57752" title="Irmo, South Carolina">
Irmo, South Carolina

Irmo is a town 12 miles outside of Columbia, South Carolina. There were 11,039 people living in Irmo as of the year 2000.

Irmo is found at (34.092629, -81.186073).

The United States Census Bureau says the town has an area of 10.7 km² (4.1 mi²). There is no water in that area.

Irmo is home to the annual Okra Strut.

Irmo was chartered on Christmas Eve in 1890 because of the opening of the Columbia, Newberry, and Laurens Railroad. The strange name of Irmo was the result of putting together the names of Captain C.J. Iredell and Henry Moseley, two important figures in the founding of the town. The town of Irmo does not have an actual downtown area. It is only several clusters of suburban neighborhoods.



</doc>
<doc id="57758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57758" title="Mediterranean climate">
Mediterranean climate

A Mediterranean climate is a climate that is similar to the climate of the lands bordering the Mediterranean Sea. Outside the Mediterranean, one can find this climate only in rather small areas. Generally one can find it on the western coasts of continental landmasses, roughly between latitudes 30° to 45° north and south of the equator.

cfghjklfrytguhujkjmj
-- () 13:54, 17 November 2011 (UTC),jnkljnknlkn



</doc>
<doc id="57759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57759" title="Hans Richter">
Hans Richter

Hans Richter (born as Raab (now Györ) 4 April 1843; died Bayreuth 5 December 1916) was an Austro-Hungarian conductor. His name was originally János Richter.

Richter came from a musical family and studied violin, horn and music theory at the Vienna Conservatory. He became famous for his conducting of the music of Richard Wagner, Anton Bruckner and Johannes Brahms.

Richter helped Wagner to prepare the printed musical scores of "Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg" and the four operas in the cycle "Der Ring des Nibelungen". He conducted a lot in Vienna and at the Bayreuth Opera House which Wagner had built for the performance of his own operas.

Later he became very popular in England and lived in Manchester. He was conductor of the Hallé Orchestra and director of the Birmingham Music Festival. He conducted German operas at Covent Garden and in 1909 he conducted Wagner’s Ring cycle which was being performed in English for the first time.

When he retired he lived in Bayreuth until his death.

Richter helped the English audiences to get to know the music of Wagner, Dvořák and Elgar. Elgar dedicated his "First Symphony" to Hans Richter, describing him as a “true artist and true friend”.


</doc>
<doc id="57761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57761" title="Category:Austrian conductors">
Category:Austrian conductors


</doc>
<doc id="57762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57762" title="Category:Conductors by nationality">
Category:Conductors by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="57763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57763" title="Category:Hungarian conductors">
Category:Hungarian conductors


</doc>
<doc id="57764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57764" title="Category:French conductors">
Category:French conductors


</doc>
<doc id="57765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57765" title="Category:British conductors">
Category:British conductors


</doc>
<doc id="57766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57766" title="Category:Russian conductors">
Category:Russian conductors


</doc>
<doc id="57767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57767" title="Category:Austrian violinists">
Category:Austrian violinists


</doc>
<doc id="57768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57768" title="Category:Violinists by nationality">
Category:Violinists by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="57769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57769" title="Thylacine">
Thylacine

Thylacine was a carnivorous (mainly meat eating) marsupial animal. The "Thylacine" was also known as a "Tasmanian Tiger", a "Tasmanian wolf" and a "Tasmanian hyena". The last known "Thylacine" died in a Hobart zoo on September 7, 1936. They once lived across Australia and New Guinea. There are paintings of the animals in the north of Western Australia, and in the Northern Territory. At Riversleigh in north Queensland, scientists have discovered the fossil bones of thylacines that are at least 30 million years old.

Thylacines were common across Australia. Fossil remains have been found in Queensland, paintings have been found in Western Australia, and a mummified body was found in cave on the Nullabor Plains in South Australia. The body was dated as being 4,650 years old. The thylacine began to disappear from the Australian mainland about 5,000 years ago. This is about the same time as the arrival in Australia of the dingo. Because of rising sea levels 10,000 years ago, Tasmania was separated from the Australian mainland by Bass Strait which the dingo never crossed. By the time Europeans came to Australia in 1788, the Thylacine was only living in Tasmania. They were hunted because farmers said they were killing sheep. The Tasmanian government gave money to farmers for each thylacine they killed. The last thylacine shot and killed was at Mawbanna, Tasmania, on 13 May, 1930, by farmer Wilfred Batty. The government brought in laws to protect them a few months before the last one died. They are now extinct, which means there are no thylacines left alive anywhere in the world.

The "Thylacine" was about 1.1 metres (44 inches) long and its tail was up to 53 cms (21 inches) long. It was grey and brown in colour with 16 black or brown stripes on its back. It had the same shape as a dog, but the back, rump and tail were more like a kangaroo. Its tail was quite stiff. It had very short legs. It had teeth like a dog, but with more incisor teeth. It was able to open its mouth very wide, to about 120 degrees. Only snakes open their jaws as widely. It also had a crescent shaped bag, opening to the back, to carry its young.

The "thylacine" was a nocturnal (night) hunting animal. They ate wallabies, rats, birds, echidnas, rabbits and sheep.

The thylacines were marsupials, which means the female carried the babies in a pouch. The pouch opened to the rear.



</doc>
<doc id="57772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57772" title="Rock Against Communism">
Rock Against Communism

Rock Against Communism (RAC) was a series of Neo-Nazi concerts in the United Kingdom in the late 1970's and 1980's. The first RAC concert was in Leeds, England in 1978.





</doc>
<doc id="57780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57780" title="Category:Punk bands">
Category:Punk bands


</doc>
<doc id="57782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57782" title="List of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer movies">
List of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer movies

This is a selected list of feature films made by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.











</doc>
<doc id="57786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57786" title="Zoo Tycoon 2">
Zoo Tycoon 2

Zoo Tycoon 2 is a 2004 simulation computer game. In the game, the player must create and run a zoo. This is done by managing its finances, employees and animal exhibits. The goal is to become a "zoo tycoon".

The game is a sequel the 2001 game "Zoo Tycoon". Six expansion packs have been created for the game. The latest is "Zoo Tycoon 2: Extinct Animals".


</doc>
<doc id="57787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57787" title="Zoo Tycoon">
Zoo Tycoon

Zoo Tycoon is a simulation computer game. It was developed by Blue Fang Games and released by Microsoft Game Studios. It is a game in which the player must run a business, in this case a zoo, and try to earn money. 

"Zoo Tycoon" was followed by "Zoo Tycoon 2" in 2004.


</doc>
<doc id="57790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57790" title="Chapel">
Chapel

A chapel is a place for Christian worship. The word is used in several different ways. Generally, a chapel is a place of worship that is not a church which belongs to a parish in a village or town, but is more private or has a special purpose. 

Some large houses and palaces have their own private chapel where the family and the servants of the house can worship. 

Usually these chapels are small. As well as being used for prayers, the chapel might also hold the graves of members of the family, or else have memorials and statues around the walls. 

Famous small family chapels are at Haddon Hall in Derbyshire and in the "Riccardi Medici Palace" in Florence. This small chapel has famous frescoes of the Three Kings by Benozzo Gozzoli.

Some private chapels are as large as very large churches. Because these large chapels can only be built by very rich people, they often have magnificent architecture or very rich decoration. 

Some of the most famous large private chapels are St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle, the Chapel Royal at Versailles Palace and the Sistine Chapel at the Vatican Palace. The Sistine Chapel is the chapel of the popes and is famous for its ceiling painted by Michelangelo. 
Many universities, colleges, schools, law courts, hospitals and prisons have their own chapels. These might be a grand and beautiful building like the Eton College Chapel, or just a small room that is set aside for prayer. 

At many schools, Chapel Service is an important part of the week, when the whole school gets together to pray and to sing hymns. Sometimes a big important church or cathedral might also act as a chapel. Oxford Cathedral is the chapel for Christ Church College of the University of Oxford. St. Andrew's Cathedral, Sydney acts as the chapel to 900 pupils of the cathedral school.

A monastery or a convent generally has a chapel where the monks or nuns can worship. This might be a private chapel, just the right size for the people at the monastery, or it might be a big church that serves a village or town as well, or even a cathedral for the whole region.

Many cathedrals show evidence that they were once used by monks as well as the town people. One of the signs is a large stone screen that divides the church into two areas. Often these churches have a lot of small chapels because the monks or nuns would each say private prayers in one of the small chapels every day.

From the Middle Ages, wealthy families would often give money to a church or cathedral so that a family chapel could be built attached to the church. There were several reasons for this. The family might want a place where they could pray privately outsde the regular service time. They might want to give thanks to God that a member of the family had been healed or rescued. They might want to bury dead family members and have prayers said every day. They might want to give honour to a particular saint. They might want to avoid taxation by spending a lot of money quickly. They might want to beautify their favorite church and make it bigger. They might want to make something beautiful that the whole town can use. 

Whatever the reason might be, there are a great number of family chapels attached to old churches, all over Europe. The Church of Santa Croce in Florence is famous for its many chapels named after important Florentine families. One of the most famous chapels of this type is the one built by Henry VIII to bury his father at Westminster Abbey. 

Many chapels have a special purpose in the church. One of the most important uses for a small chapel within a church is to store the Sacrament, the wine and bread or wafer which is used for Holy Communion. Some chapels are designed to remind worshippers of a particular part of the "Life of Christ", particularly the Crucifixion or Resurrection, or celebrate a certain Feast Day in the Church Year, such as the "Assumption of the Virgin". 

Other chapels might hold the relics of a saint or a precious painting or statue of a particular saint such as Saint Anthony of Padua, Saint Francis of Assisi or Saint Patrick. 

It is usual for the armed services and other similar organisations to have special chapels at churches or cathedrals. 

Most cathedrals have a chapel especially to remember local people who have served their country and perhaps died in a war. The chapel might have the "colours" or flags of the local regiment. Services may be held regularly, or on special days to remember a particular battle or a particular hero. 

In many Protestant churches, the places where people gather for prayer and services are called "chapels" rather than churches. This is sometimes because the "pastors" of the congregation were not accepted as priests by the Roman Catholic or Anglican churches, or because they were set up in places where there was no priest to take services. 

These are chapels built specially for the use of travellers who can drop in as they are passing by. They may be found in busy market places, deep in forests, on lonely mountain roads, and nowadays, at airports. 
These chapels are found at cemeteries. Sometimes they are owned by a particular family and contain the tombs of family members, but in most large modern cemeteries the chapels are multi-denominational, meaning that they are for people of different Christian churches, and are used specifically for funeral services.




</doc>
<doc id="57793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57793" title="Clandestine chemistry">
Clandestine chemistry

Clandestine chemistry is chemistry that occurs in a lab that is used for making illegal drugs, usually using unsafe equipment. The use of this unsafe laboratory equipment will sometimes result in explosions, fires or heavy flows of noxious fumes. Meth labs are the main form of clandestine laboratories and are used for making methamphetamine (Crystal Meth), a kind of illegal drug. "Clandestine" means "secret". 


</doc>
<doc id="57821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57821" title="Flask">
Flask

A flask is a common piece of apparatus. Flasks can be found in almost every laboratory. A flask has a wider body at the bottom and a narrower neck with an opening at the top. Some flasks have more than one neck and opening at the top. Flasks are used to contain substances. Flasks are usually made of glass or borosilicate glass (Pyrex). Flasks can be used to heat the substance inside of them. There are several shapes of flasks. 
<br>


</doc>
<doc id="57828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57828" title="Ebermannstadt">
Ebermannstadt

Ebermannstadt is a German town in the district of Forchheim, Bavaria, Germany. The population of the town is about 7,000. The next largest cities are: Forchheim, Bayreuth, Bamberg, Kulmbach and Erlangen. The city parts of Ebermannstadt are:


</doc>
<doc id="57830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57830" title="Franks">
Franks

The Franks or the Frankish peoples were one of several west Germanic federations of tribes. It was formed out of Germanic tribes: Salians, Sicambri, Chamavi, Tencteri, Chattuarii, Bructeri, Usipetes, Ampsivarii, Chatti. Most of them lived at the northern borders of the Rhine.
They entered the late Roman Empire from the north and east river bank of the Rhine into modern northern Belgium and southern Netherlands. Later invasions conquered and established a lasting kingdom in an area which eventually covered most of modern-day France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the western regions of Germany. When the pagan Frankish king Clovis became Christian in the late 5th century that was an important event in the history of Europe. 

Modern scholars of the period of the migrations are in agreement that the Frankish confederacy emerged at the beginning of the third century. A region in the northeast of the modern-day Netherlands – north of the erstwhile Roman border – still bears the name Salland, and may have received that name from the Salians, who formed the core of the Frankish sea raiders.

From their heartland, the Franks gradually conquered most of Roman Gaul north of the Loire valley and east of Visigothic Aquitaine. At first they helped defend the border as allies; for example, when a major invasion of mostly East Germanic tribes crossed the Rhine in 406, the Franks fought against these invaders. In the region of Paris, Roman control persisted until 486, a decade after the fall of the emperors of Ravenna, in part due to alliances with the Franks.

In 451, Aëtius called upon his Germanic allies on Roman soil to help fight off an invasion by Attila the Hun. The Salian Franks answered the call; the Ripuarian Franks fought on both sides as some of them lived outside the Empire. The Merovingians had governors who lead the Franks to war and had many governing responsibilities. 

The Carolingian kingship begins with the deposition of the last Merovingian king, and the accession in 751 of Pippin the Short, father of Charlemagne. 

Pippin reigned as an elected king. While in later France the kingdom became hereditary, the kings of the later Holy Roman Empire proved unable to abolish the elective tradition and continued as elected rulers until the Empire's formal end in 1806.

In 768 Charlemagne (Charles the Great), a powerful, intelligent, and modestly literate figure who became a legend for the later history of both France and Germany. Charles restored an equal balance between emperor and pope.

From 772 onwards, Charles conquered and eventually defeated the Saxons to incorporate their realm into the Frankish kingdom. 
Then (773–774), he conquered the Lombards and thus could include northern Italy in his sphere of influence. He renewed the Vatican donation and the promise to the papacy of continued Frankish protection.

Charles created a realm that reached from the Pyrenees in the southwest (actually, including an area in Northern Spain ("Marca Hispanica") after 795) over almost all of today's France (except Brittany, which the Franks never conquered) eastwards to most of today's Germany, including northern Italy and today's Austria. 
On Christmas Day, 800, Pope Leo III crowned Charles as "Emperor of the Romans" in Rome. Though Charles preferred the title "Emperor, king of the Franks and Lombards", as he did not want to get in conflict with the Byzantine Empire, the Frankish Empire became the successor of the (Western) Roman Empire. Charles died on January 28, 814 in Aachen, where was buried.

Charles had several sons, but only one survived him. This son, Louis the Pious, followed his father as the ruler of a united Empire. When Louis died in 840, the Treaty of Verdun in 843 divided the Empire in three:




</doc>
<doc id="57831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57831" title="Franks (disambiguation)">
Franks (disambiguation)

The Franks are medieval Germanic tribes.

Franks may also refer to: 

Franks is a surname:

Franks may also be an alternative spelling or mistranslation of:



</doc>
<doc id="57846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57846" title="Zebra mussel">
Zebra mussel

The zebra mussel is a small shellfish. Color patterns could vary, having only dark or colored shells or no stripes. They are typically found attached to objects, surfaces, or each other by threads underneath the shells. Although similar in appearance to the quagga mussel, the two species can be easily distinguished. When placed on a surface zebra mussels are stable on their flattened underside while quagga mussels, lacking a flat underside, will fall over. They are currently a major problem in Northern America's Great Lakes region because of a fast reproduction time. Zebra mussels are notorious for their biofouling capabilities by colonizing water supply pipes of hydroelectric and nuclear power plants, public water supply plants, and industrial facilities. They colonize pipes constricting flow, therefore reducing the intake in heat exchangers, condensers, fire fighting equipment, and air conditioning and cooling systems. It is estimated that zebra mussels will continue to populate the Great Lakes and even enter the Mississippi River region. They have no relation to zebras.


</doc>
<doc id="57858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57858" title="San Marcos, Texas">
San Marcos, Texas

San Marcos is a city located in central Texas. It is home to Texas State University-San Marcos.

It is part of the Interstate 35 corridor, between Austin and San Antonio.


</doc>
<doc id="57864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57864" title="Bar (music)">
Bar (music)

A bar or measure is used in writing music. Each bar is a small amount of time. Most music has a regular beat (or pulse) which can be felt. Each bar usually has the same number of beats in it. Music that feels like 1-2-3-4-1-2-3-4 will be divided into bars with four beats-worth of music in each bar.

The bar line (or barline) is a vertical line which separates the bars. 

At the beginning of the music there will be a time signature which shows how many beats there are in each bar.

A double bar does not mean "two bars". It means two single barlines drawn close together, one being thicker than the other. It is a "repeat sign". If there are two dots on the left of the double bar line the player should go back to where there was previously a double bar with two dots on the right, or back to the beginning of the piece.

A double barline without dots shows the end of a piece of music.

The first beat of a bar feels stronger than the others. When a conductor beats time, his hand (or baton) always goes DOWN for the first beat of the bar. This feels strong. The last beat of a bar is an "upbeat" because the conductor's hand always goes up.

Barlines have been used since around 1600.


</doc>
<doc id="57869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57869" title="Rostov">
Rostov

Rostov (Russian: Росто́в; Old Norse: Rostofa) is one of the oldest towns in Russia. It was first mentioned in the year 862 as an already important town. By the 13th century Rostov became the capital of an important area.

Now it is an important tourist centre of the so called Golden ring. It is located on the shores of Lake Nero in Yaroslavl Oblast. About 35,300 people lived there in 2002.

While the official name of the town is Rostov, it is better known to Russians as Rostov Veliky, i.e. "Rostov the Great". This name is used to distinguish it from Rostov on Don, which is now a much larger city. Rostov Yaroslavsky is the official name of its railway station (due to its position in Yaroslavl Oblast), but not of the town itself.


</doc>
<doc id="57882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57882" title="Alaskan king crab fishing">
Alaskan king crab fishing

Alaskan king crab fishing is an event done in the winter in the Bering Sea near Alaska where people fish for many King Crabs. The people fish from boats between 40 and 250 feet in length. They throw steel cages, called pots, over the side of the boat , and the crab are lured to bait placed in them. Once they have been on the bottom of the sea long enough they are pulled back onto the boat using a special kind of crane. The crab in the pots are then looked at and crabs that are not good enough are put back into the ocean and the rest are put into a tank. When the ship gets back to the shore, the crab are sold to stores around the world. 

The people working on the boat are paid a lot of money. The amount of money can be from nothing to tens of thousands of dollars depending on how many crab the fishermen caught. Alaskan crab fishing is one of the USA's most dangerous jobs. Because of the big waves and dangerous boats the fishermen work on, some people die every year.

To show people how dangerous crab fishing is, the Discovery Channel made a series called Deadliest Catch about the fishermen. And they also catch a lot of Crabs. 


</doc>
<doc id="57885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57885" title="The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass">
The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass

The games story happens after 's story. The player plays as the main character of the Zelda games, Link. The game will let the player sail around a Ocean using a boat. The game also has an online mode. 


</doc>
<doc id="57886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57886" title="Link (The Legend of Zelda)">
Link (The Legend of Zelda)

Link is a fictional character from "The Legend of Zelda" series.
The game was created by Shigeru Miyamoto. 47 million copies of the game have been sold since 2007. 

Link wears a green shirt and a long, floppy green hat on his head. In the Legend of Zelda games, the player must use Link to fight against evil, especially Ganondorf. Although Link is the main character in the game, he never speaks. He is also left-handed, and has large ears, like most Hylians. He has also appeared in all 3 of the "Super Smash Bros." games. Link mainly used a sword and a shield but he is able to use a large number of weapons like bombs, bow, hammer or a boomerang.

Link has been in many GameFAQs "Character Battle" contests and is the only character to have won more than once. In one of IGN's 2007 "Hero Showdowns", Link was voted the favorite over Cloud Strife. Link ranked first on GameDaily's Top 10 Smash Bros. characters list. IGN asked its readers to vote for their favorite Nintendo character in which Link came first.


</doc>
<doc id="57902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57902" title="Solar power station in Victoria">
Solar power station in Victoria

A big new Solar power station in Victoria is planned. 

A company called Solar Systems has announced a large 154 MW photovoltaic (PV) solar power station for north-western Victoria. The A$420 million project will provide enough electricity for more than 45,000 homes. It will create jobs and will also reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

Full completion is expected in 2013, with the first stage to be finished by 2010. 

Four smaller solar power stations have already been built in central Australia.




</doc>
<doc id="57903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57903" title="Waldpolenz Solar Park">
Waldpolenz Solar Park

Waldpolenz Solar Park, is a photovoltaic (PV) power plant, to the east of Leipzig in Germany. The power plant is a 40-megawatt solar power system using new technology. It is in the Muldentalkreis district in the state of Saxony in eastern Germany. The investment cost for the Waldpolenz solar park amounts to some Euro 130 million.




</doc>
<doc id="57905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57905" title="Masaccio">
Masaccio

Tommaso Guidi, better known as Masaccio, (1401 - 1428), was a famous painter of the Italian Renaissance. He worked in Florence. "Masaccio" was a nickname that meant "Fat Untidy Tom". He lived a very short life and only a few of his paintings exist, but they were so different to the style of other artists around him that they helped other painters to see things in a new way. 

Masaccio was born on 21 December, 1401, in the town of san mexico

In 1422, when he was 21, Masaccio was already known as a painter, because he joined the "Company of Saint Luke", which was a guild that helped artists and set down the rules for their employment.

The earliest known painting by Masaccio is the "San Giovenale Triptych", dating from 1422. A "triptych" is a painting in three parts, most often used as an altarpiece. This altarpiece has in the middle panel the Virgin Mary and Christ Child on a throne. The wings, or side panels, each show two saints. Kneeling in front of the Virgin Mary are two little angels. One of the things that makes this painting different from most other paintings of the same time is that the angels are shown from the back. Their position is an invitation for the viewer to kneel down and worship the Virgin and Child as well. Masaccio used this way of making the viewer feel part of the scene in many of his paintings. 

The plump solemn Baby Jesus with his fingers in his mouth, the three-dimensional look of the figures and the lack of rich decoration make this picture look very different from most other altarpieces of this time, which were painted in a style called International Gothic.

In April 1422 an eso that they all looked like real "individual" people. 

When Masaccio returned to Florence he was given a job, a "commission" to paint a fresco of the procession that had taken place for the opening of the new church. Masaccio was inspired by what he had seen in Rome. 
The writer Vasari, who must have seen the picture before it was destroyed in the late 1500s, wrote that the people were in rows that were five or six deep, but painted in such a way that they were all different, fat ones and thin ones, tall ones and short ones, some in long cloaks, some in big hats, and every single one was a portrait of a real person who lived in Florence at the time. And of course, Masaccio put his friends Brunelleschi, Donatello and Masolino into the picture. Luckily, several artists made drawings at some time in the 1500s, so part of the design has been recorded, even though the painting itself has gone.

In the Uffizi Gallery in Florence is an altarpiece that shows the Madonna and Child with Saint Anne. The Madonna and Child are seated on a throne, as is usual. Saint Anne, who was the mother of the Virgin Mary, is shown standing behind Mary with one hand on her daughter's shoulder and the other hand above the head of the Baby Jesus in a sign of blessing. The painting may have been done for a convent of nuns who honoured Saint Anne. 

It is believed that this painting is a "collaboration"; that two artists worked on it together. It is believed by Art Historians that Masaccio painted Mary and Jesus and the angel near the top right. It is believed that Saint Anne and the other four angels were painted by Masolino. 

Masolino was 17 years older than Masaccio. His name was Tommaso da Panicale, so when the two began to work together, they were known as Masaccio and Masolino, which means "Little Tom". Those are the names by which they are remembered as painters. 

"The Brancacci Chapel" is a large chapel at the Church of Santa Maria del Carmine where Masaccio had previously worked painting the procession. It was sponsored by the Brancacci family who paid for its decoration. There are no written records to show why or how it happened, but it seems that Masaccio and Masolino were given the job together. At first everything went very well and then things went very badly. It looked as if the job would never be finished. In fact, it is lucky that the paintings in the chapel survived at all. 

The job seems to have started in 1423 or 1424 but this is not certain. The plan of the paintings was to show firstly how Sin came into the world through the disobedience of Adam and Eve. A painting by Masolino shows their disobedience in taking fruit from the forbidden tree. A painting opposite it by Masaccio shows Adam and Eve in disgrace, being chased out of the Garden of Eden. The rest of the paintings show "The Life of Saint Peter". This is because Saint Peter was the founder of the Catholic Church and the paintings were meant to show that the best way to know about God's love is through the Church. 

It seems that Masaccio and Masolino happily planned a scheme of frescoes that went together is a pleasing way, even though they are in two styles. It is not hard to tell which scenes Masolino painted and which were done by Masaccio. Masolino's are prettier and more elegant. Masaccio's scenes show figures that are strong and have drapes like the statues that he saw in Rome. The thing that was most different in his painting to other artists of the same time was that the figures looked very solid and three-dimensional. He was influenced by the paintings of Giotto who had worked in Florence at the "Church of Santa Croce" nearly a hundred years earlier, but whose style of painting had given way to the International Gothic style. 
Apart from the "Adam and Eve" scenes, which are the smallest of the pictures, the most famous is Masaccio's picture of "The Tribute Money". This large picture is set partly against a background of mountains and a lake, and partly against the background of a town which is similar to Florence. There are three scenes from the story. In the centre of the picture is a large group, Jesus and his twelve disciples. A tax collector has come to ask for a payment, but none of the men have any money. Jesus tells Peter to go fishing in the lake. Peter looks rather annoyed, wondering what good it will do. To the left, the small figure of Peter is kneeling at the edge of the lake with a fish he has caught. Inside the fish is a coin. To the right side of the picture, Peter is shown giving the coin to the tax collector. He no longer looks argumentative. Instead, he looks humble. Masaccio has expertly shown the feelings of the characters, not only by their faces, but also through body language. 

Neither Masaccio nor Masolino were able to work on the frescoes continuously, as they both kept getting other jobs to attend to. In 1428 Masaccio was asked to go to Rome to paint an altarpiece for one of the most important and ancient churches, Santa Maria Maggiore. He only painted one panel, "Saint Jerome and Saint John the Baptist", before he died at the age of 27 years. Masolino and perhaps another artist, Domenico Veneziano worked on, and finished the altarpiece, which was later broken into pieces and scattered to galleries in different countries. Masaccio's panel is in the National Gallery, London. 

Masolino lived for another 19 years, but he never went back to finish the Brancacci frescoes. The Brancacci family fell into disgrace and were chased out of Florence. One of Masaccio's pictures was attacked because it had portraits of some of the Brancacci family in it. Some 50 years later, in the 1480s, all the scenes that remained incomplete or not begun were painted by Filippino Lippi, who tried to respect the styles that Masaccio and Masolino had used before him.

The chapel, which was dedicated to Saint Peter, was re-dedicated to "Our Lady of the Common People" and to her honour a magnificent ancient altarpiece by Coppo di Marcovaldo, dating from about 1280 was put into place. Because this image of the Virgin Mary was said to work miracles, many hundreds of candles were lit in front of it which soon stained the frescoes so that their bright colours could no longer be seen. Eventually the painting was moved to a different church. Then part of the roof fell in and had to be replaced. More damage was done in re-decorating. In 1680 the Marquis Francesco Ferroni decided that the paintings were too old-fashioned and should all be pulled down. Luckily the Grand Duchess Vittoria della Rovere stopped this from happening. In 1734 a painter called Antonio Pillori cleaned the frescoes. Then in the 1770, there was a fire in the church, causing worse staining and some damage to the frescoes. (Luckily the precious altarpiece had been moved.)

In recent years there have been four interesting discoveries. During a minor cleaning in 1904 two slabs of marble near the altar were moved. Underneath were the bright colours that showed what the frescoes should look like. Examination of the areas where two windows had been changed showed the plans for two paintings that had been destroyed. The final discoveries in the chapel itself were two painted "roundels" with little angel faces in them, one by Masaccio and one by Masolino. 

There was a problem to be solved in the minds of some art historians. Despite these interesting findings, there was a scene missing from the story of Saint Peter. It is the scene where Jesus says "You are Peter, and on this Rock I build my Church." This part of the story is of the greatest importance to the Roman Catholic Church because Peter was the first Bishop of Rome, and so the Pope rules as his direct line. The scene is usually shown by Jesus giving Peter the "Keys of Heaven". "The Keys", for hundreds of years, have been the symbol of the Pope. But the story of "the Keys" is completely missing. 

Then, in the 1940s, John Pope-Hennessy, the director of the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, realised that the museum owned a work of art that was exactly the thing that was missing from the Brancacci Chapel. It was a thin, almost flat marble slab delicately carved with the scene of Jesus giving "the Keys" to Peter. It was just the right size to make the front of an altar. And although it could not be proved, it was almost certainly carved by Masaccio's friend, Donatello. 
At some time while he was working on the "Brancacci Chapel", Masaccio painted a fresco for another church in Florence, "Santa Maria Novella", the church of the Dominican Order. This is a very remarkable painting and one of Masaccio's most famous. It shows the "Holy Trinity", (or God in three parts). God is shown as the eternal Creator, as the humble Sacrifice in Jesus on the Cross and as the inspiring Spirit. On either side of the Cross stand the Virgin Mary and Saint John. The two kneeling figures are the family who paid for the painting. 

Masaccio has painted this very holy scene as if it was taking place in a deep recess or small chapel in the wall of the church. He has done this by using very accurate perspective. It is believed that the architect Brunelleschi may have helped him with this, as the painted architecture looks very much like buildings that Brunelleschi designed.

Vasari writes that Masaccio was not very famous in his own time. In 1440 his body was brought home to Florence and buried at Santa Maria del Carmine but no monument was put up in his honour. Shortly afterwards people began to honour him as a painter. Michelangelo and many other painters and sculptors went to the "Brancacci Chapel" to study Masaccio's paintings. His influence can be seen in the paintings of Fra Angelico, Piero della Francesca, Ghirlandaio and particularly Michelangelo.




</doc>
<doc id="57906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57906" title="Wind power in Germany">
Wind power in Germany

Germany is the world's biggest user of wind power with an installed capacity of 20,621MW in 2006, ahead of Spain which had 11,615MW. 18,000 wind turbines are located in Germany and the country has plans to build more.



</doc>
<doc id="57907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57907" title="Wind power in Denmark">
Wind power in Denmark

After the world's oil crises in the 1970s, Denmark started to develop wind power. In 1988, two years after the Chernobyl disaster, the Danes passed a law forbidding the construction of nuclear power plants. 

The Danes were pioneers in developing commercial wind power during the 1970’s and today almost half of the wind turbines around the world are produced by Danish manufacturers such as Vestas.

Wind power in Denmark provided 18% of the electricity produced in Denmark in 2005, and cumulative installed capacity over recent years is shown in the Table below. However most of the wind power is exported abroad. The correlation between wind power and electricity export is very strong.

Wind turbines are popular with people in Denmark. 
Sources: Global Wind 2005 Report, p.7 <br>Global Wind 2006 Report, p.9




</doc>
<doc id="57911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57911" title="Category:Auto racing">
Category:Auto racing


</doc>
<doc id="57914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57914" title="Don River (Russia)">
Don River (Russia)

The Don (Дон) is one of the major rivers of Russia. It rises in the town of Novomoskovsk 60 km southeast from Tula, southeast of Moscow, and flows for a distance of about 1,950 km (1,220 miles) to the Sea of Azov.

From its source, the river first flows southeast to Voronezh, then southwest to its mouth. The main city on the river is Rostov on Don, its main tributary, the Donets.

In antiquity, the river was seen as the border between Europe and Asia. In the Hebrew Book of Jubilees, it is mentioned as being part of the border, beginning with its westernmost point up to its mouth, between the allotment of Japheth to the north and that of Shem to the south, sons of Noah. During the times of the old Scythians it was known in Greek as the Tanaïs, and has been a major trading route ever since. 

Tanais appears in ancient Greek sources as the name of the river and of a city on it, situated in the Maeotian marshes. The name derives however from Scythian (Iranian) "Dānu" "river", akin to modern Ossetic "don" "river". 

At its easternmost point, the Don comes near the Volga, and the Volga-Don Canal (length ca. 105 km (65 miles)), connecting both rivers, has been a major waterway. The Khazar fortress of Sarkel used to dominate this point in the Middle Ages. This part of the river saw Operation Uranus, one of the turning points of the Second World War. 

The Don has given its name to the Don Cossacks who settled the fertile valley of the river in the 16th and 17th centuries. In modern literature, the Don figures centrally in the works of Mikhail Aleksandrovich Sholokhov, a Cossack from the stanitsa of Veshenskaya.


</doc>
<doc id="57915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57915" title="Template:Infobox river">
Template:Infobox river


</doc>
<doc id="57916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57916" title="Grace Hopper">
Grace Hopper

Grace Murray Hopper (December 9 1906 – January 1 1992) was an American computer scientist and United States Navy officer. 

She was one of the first people to work with modern digital computers and the first programmers of the Harvard Mark I calculator. She developed the first compiler for a computer programming language.

She had the idea that programs could be written in a language that was close to English rather than in machine code or languages (such as assembly language) close to machine code, which is how it was normally done at that time. COBOL language was based very much on her philosophy.

A park in Arlington, Virginia is named in her honor. The U.S. Navy destroyer USS Hopper (DDG-70) was named for her.


</doc>
<doc id="57917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57917" title="Template:Infobox River/Doc">
Template:Infobox River/Doc

Copy this syntax block if you prefer to cut and paste into an empty template.

The wikicode below will create the Infobox at right:


The following alternate empty syntax blocks are for use where you only have data in either metric or in Imperial units, or where the subject of your article calls for a different order. For example, the Mississippi River in America probably ought to use Imperial (metric) syntax, while the Canadian Mississippi would more appropriately use metric (Imperial).

Imperial (metric)

Metric Only

Imperial Only

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="57922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57922" title="Category:Zoo Tycoon">
Category:Zoo Tycoon


</doc>
<doc id="57923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57923" title="Marin Alsop">
Marin Alsop

Marin Alsop (born Manhattan, New York, October 16, 1956) is an American conductor.

She went to Yale University and then got a Master’s Degree from the Juilliard School in violin playing. She won the Koussevitzky Conducting Prize at the Tanglewood Music Center in 1989, where she studied with famous conductors such as Leonard Bernstein.

Alsop has conducted many of the world’s most famous orchestras. Since 2002 she has been the conductor of the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra, and in 2007 she will become the conductor of the Baltimore Symphony. This will make her the first woman conductor of an important American orchestra.

Alsop has won many prizes and made lots of recordings. She has conducted and recorded many pieces by American composers, including the complete orchestral works of Samuel Barber.



</doc>
<doc id="57924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57924" title="Nevada Solar One">
Nevada Solar One

Nevada Solar One is the third biggest solar power plant in the world, generating 64MW. It was built in Boulder City, Nevada. 

Nevada Solar One is a solar thermal power station and will use parabolic troughs, heating tubes of liquid (solar receivers). These solar receivers are specially coated tubes made of glass and steel. 

Nevada Solar One also uses a technology that collects extra heat by putting it into phase-changing molten salts. This energy can then be drawn on at night.

Nevada Solar One started producing electricity in the June 2007. 



</doc>
<doc id="57926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57926" title="Integrated pest management">
Integrated pest management

In agriculture, Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is a pest control strategy. This strategy uses many different ways to deal with pests: natural predators and parasites, pest-resistant varieties of plants, cultural practices, biological controls, various physical techniques, and pesticides as a last resort. 

It is an ecological approach that can reduce or eliminate the use of pesticides.


</doc>
<doc id="57928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57928" title="Serpa solar power plant">
Serpa solar power plant

Construction of the 11 megawatt Serpa solar power plant in Portugal began in June 2006 and was completed in January 2007. The plant consists of a photovoltaic system that uses silicon solar cell technology to convert sunlight directly into energy.
The Serpa solar power plant uses 52,000 photovoltaic modules manufactured by SunPower, Sanyo, and Sharp. The plant uses a new tracking system that follows the Sun's daily path across the sky.
Generating electricity from the sun with no fuel costs or emissions, the Serpa plant is on a 60-hectare (150-acre) hillside and is a model of clean power generation integrated with agriculture. The project saves more than 30,000 tons a year in greenhouse gas emissions compared to equivalent fossil fuel generation.


</doc>
<doc id="57929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57929" title="Indian Solar Loan Programme">
Indian Solar Loan Programme

The United Nation Environment Programme's Indian Solar Loan Programme has won the "World award for Sustainability" for helping to establish a householder loan program for solar home power systems.
Over the span of three years more than 16,000 solar home systems have been financed through 2,000 bank branches, mainly in areas of South India where the electricity grid does not yet extend.




</doc>
<doc id="57935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57935" title="Template:User vec">
Template:User vec


</doc>
<doc id="57940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57940" title="Clovis I">
Clovis I

Clovis I (variously spelled Chlodowech or Chlodwig, giving modern French "Louis" and modern German "Ludwig") (c. 466 – November 27 511) was the first king of the Franks who united that nation. He succeeded his father Childeric I in 481 as King of the Salian Franks, one of two main groups of Frankish tribes, They were occupying the area west of the lower Rhine at that time, with their centre around Tournai and Cambrai along the modern frontier between France and Belgium. Clovis conquered the neighbouring Frankish tribes and established himself as sole king before his death.

Clovis converted to Catholicism, as opposed to the Arian Christianity that was common among Germanic peoples, because his wife, the Burgundian Clotilde, was a Catholic. He was baptized in the Cathedral of Reims. This act was very important in the following history of France and Western Europe in general, because he expanded his reign over almost all of the old Roman province of Gaul (roughly modern France). He is considered to be the founder both of France (which his state closely resembled geographically at his death) and the Merovingian dynasty, which ruled the Franks for the next two centuries. 



</doc>
<doc id="57945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57945" title="Merovingian dynasty">
Merovingian dynasty

The Merovingians were a dynasty of Frankish kings who ruled in the region of ancient Gaul (more or less modern France), from the fifth to the eighth century.

They were sometimes referred to as the "long-haired kings" (Latin "reges criniti") by people of the time, for their symbolically uncut hair (traditionally the tribal leader of the Franks wore his hair long, while the warriors trimmed theirs short). The term is drawn directly from Germanic, akin to their dynasty's Old English name "Merewīowing".

The Merovingian dynasty owes its name to the semi-legendary Merovech (or Merowig, sometimes Latinised as "Meroveus" or "Merovius"), leader of the Salian Franks from c.447 to 457. Clovis I went on to unite most of Gaul north of the Loire under his control around 486, when he defeated Syagrius, the Roman ruler in those parts. 





</doc>
<doc id="57958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57958" title="Dale Earnhardt">
Dale Earnhardt

Ralph Dale Earnhardt, Sr. (April 29, 1951 – February 18, 2001) was an American NASCAR driver. He is the father of race car driver Dale Earnhardt, Jr. He started Dale Earnhardt, Inc., also called DEI. Earnhardt died in a crash during the Daytona 500 in 2001. The accident happened a few seconds before his own son came second in that race, and a DEI car driven by Michael Waltrip won the race.


</doc>
<doc id="57962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57962" title="Homelessness">
Homelessness

People who do not have a house or an apartment to stay in are homeless. The word "homelessness" also includes people who sleep in warming centers, homeless shelters, or in abandoned buildings, parking garages, or other places not meant for humans to live in. Homelessness occurs when people or households are unable to acquire and/or maintain housing they can afford.
In academic articles and government reports, these people are called "homeless people". You may hear different words to describe homelessness and homeless people. Some of these words apply to people who might not be homeless. Sometimes they are based upon stereotypes. For instance, in slang, a vagabond is someone who travels without the money necessary to stay in good hotels. Such a person may or may not have a home somewhere. Sometimes police reports use the word "transient" to describe people from out of town or who are passing through. Many times these words confuse the issues because someone just passing through might own a mansion somewhere or might not. 

There are tough questions in sorting out homeless people even when trying to create programs and services to help them. Homeless counts are required by the government agencies that deal with homelessness. In the USA, for instance, the Housing and Urban Development (HUD) agency requires a homeless "enumeration" count every two years. They classify "homeless" in a careful way and that way is very influential and a lot of other agencies and church groups copy it.

Housing and Urban Development spreads information about what works and what doesn't. That information is called "best practices". HUD defines homeless as 1. somebody who lacks a fixed, regular, and decent place to sleep at night or 2. somebody who sleeps at night in A.a supervised shelter (including welfare hotels, homeless shelters, warming centers and transitional housing) ; B.a place that provides a temporary residence for people waiting for space in a place like a hospital, jail or hospice; or C.a place not designed for human beings to sleep, such as parks or public streets.

he "C" part of the HUD definition is now getting more attention. It is called "chronic homelessness". (HUD) defines a "chronically homeless" person as "an unaccompanied homeless individual with a disabling condition". There are other conditions to that definition. It has to be someone who has either been homeless for a year or more, or has been homeless four episodes times in the past three years."

People who study these things believe that the "chronic" homeless cost a lot more than the rest. 
A new approach is to seek information on who those folks are. They are using what is called a vulnerability index system. It was invented by a doctor in Boston who works with a New York organization called Common Ground. These "Vulnerability Index's" code for things like bad liver, kidney disease, HIV-AIDS, age and visits to the hospital.

Health care for the homeless is a major public health challenge. Homeless people are more likely to suffer injuries and medical problems from their lifestyle on the street. Quite a few drink or have substance abuse problems with drugs. Some have skin conditions from being out in the sun without sun blockers to protect themselves from UV radiation. It is hard to find places to wash up, and homeless people are exposed to extreme cold and hot sun. It is tough finding good food for many homeless people so they tend to suffer from medical conditions. This can include obesity if they eat a lot of poor quality food with empty calories. Homeless people also may have more severe dental problems than the general population due to lack of access to washrooms and in some cases excess intake of sweets, which may be the only food available. Diabetes and liver problems are not uncommon, as are diseases associated with cigarette smoking.

The vulnerability index is a tool for finding out who among the street homeless population needs health care and housing the most.

The vulnerability index is from the work of Dr. Jim O'Connell of Boston's Healthcare for the Homeless. He was concerned about the causes of death of unsheltered homeless individuals living on the street. A national drive is underway by Common Ground to work with the HUD homeless count. Since communities are doing the count, he believes that is a good time to do the vulnerability index too. Its' people say that using it will help getting needy individuals off the street. 

The vulnerability index has been tried out in a lot of other places not just the East Coast. These include New Mexico and Santa Monica

The main reasons for homelessness have been studied in many reports and studies.
For example: 

The number of homeless people worldwide has grown steadily in the past few years. In some Third World nations such as Brazil, India, Nigeria, and South Africa, homelessness is a very big problem, with millions of children living and working on the streets. Homelessness has also become a problem in the China, Thailand, Indonesia, and the Philippines.

In the sixteenth century in England, the government first tried to give housing to vagabonds instead of punishing them. In the eighteenth century, these houses were replaced by workhouses. These were later replaced by dormitory housing ("spikes"). By the early 1930's in England, there were 30,000 people living in these places. 

In most countries, many towns and cities had an area where all the poor, transients, and afflicted lived, such as a "skid row". 
In smaller towns, there were hobos, who camped near train tracks and hopped onto trains from place to place. 
Many places where people were once allowed to loiter(such as churches, public libraries and public atriums) became more strict as the number of homeless people grew. 

In the 1980s, in the United States, some new laws were made for the homeless as a result of the work of Congressman Stewart B. McKinney. In 1987, the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act was enacted. Several organisations in some cities, such as New York and Boston, tried to help the growing number of homeless people in a new way.

Popular films

Books

Documentary films

TV documentaries

Visual Arts




</doc>
<doc id="57964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57964" title="Hideshi Hino">
Hideshi Hino

Hideshi Hino (日野日出志 Hino Hideshi, born April 19, 1946) is a Japanese manga artist. He draws and writes horror stories. Some of the books he has written are: "Hino Horror", "Panorama of Hell", and "Hell Baby". He has also made and been in horror movies.


</doc>
<doc id="57968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57968" title="Salland">
Salland

Salland is a historical region in the west and north of the present Dutch province of Overijssel.

The history of Salland goes back to the early Middle Ages, when the four quarters of Oversticht (Salland, Twente, Land van Vollenhove and Drenthe) came together.
Salland (and nearby areas) may have been the early seat of the Salian Franks, the founders of the modern Dutch and French nations.

Salland is bound to the west by the provincial border with Gelderland, which is partly formed by river IJssel; to the north by the Meppelerdiep stream and the provincial border with Drenthe, which partly consists of the Reest stream; to the east by the borders with the German state of Lower Saxony and the eastern Overijssel region of Twente; and to the south by the border with the Gelderland region of Achterhoek, part of which is formed by the Schipbeek stream.

Geologically, most of Salland's landscape consists of a lowland covered with river sediment. 



</doc>
<doc id="57978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57978" title="Isengard">
Isengard



</doc>
<doc id="57979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57979" title="Darkthrone">
Darkthrone

Darkthrone is a black metal band from Norway.



</doc>
<doc id="57981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57981" title="Minutemen (band)">
Minutemen (band)

The Minutemen were a very well known American hardcore punk band from the 1980s. The people in the band were D. Boon on guitar, Mike Watt on bass guitar and George Hurley on drums.

The Minutemen were formed in January of 1980 and began to record music that same year. They gave to the public their first EP, called "Paranoid Time", that year. Over the next five years, the Minutemen went on many music playing trips and made many albums. Some of their most well kown albums are "What Makes a Man Start Fires?" and "Double Nickels on the Dime".

The band was forced to split in 1985 due to the death of D. Boon. Boon was killed in a car crash when his girlfriend fell asleep at the wheel. After Boon's death, Watt and Hurley formed the band fIREHOSE with Minutemen fan Ed Crawford. fIREHOSE played until 1994 when they broke up. Since the breakup of fIREHOSE, Mike Watt has played in several bands and also his own solo career.


</doc>
<doc id="57982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57982" title="Hammurabi">
Hammurabi

Hammurabi (Akkadian from Amorite "ˤAmmurāpi", meaning "the kinsman is a healer," from "ˤAmmu", meaning "paternal kinsman", and "Rāpi", meaning "healer") (died 1750 BCE), was the sixth king of Babylon from 1792 BC to 1750 BC. He became king after his father abdicated, and was the first ruler of Babylonia. By winning wars against other kingdoms in Mesopotamia, Hammurabi created a large Babylonian empire. However, his son Samsu-iluna and later Babylonian rulers lost much of the land he had gained. Hammurabi is most famous for his laws, which are known as the Hammurabi's Code. Hammurabi's Code was one of the first written codes of law in history. 

Hammurabi became king of Babylon in around 1792 BC, when his father Sin-Muballit abdicated. Babylon was one of many small independent cities in ancient Mesopotamia. These cities often fought each other for control of land. Babylon was already one of the more powerful cities when Hammurabi became king. Earlier kings of Babylon had taken over the nearby city-states of Borsippa, Kish, and Sippar. 

Hammurabi did not fight any important wars in the early part of his reign. He instead improved the buildings of Babylon. He built taller city walls to make the city more difficult to attack, and expanded the temples. In around 1771 BC, the kingdom of Elam attacked Mesopotamia from the east. Elam invaded Eshnunna, a city-state to the north-east of Babylon, and destroyed its cities. It also tried to start a war between Babylon and Larsa, a city in southern Mesopotamia. However, Hammurabi instead made an alliance with Larsa against Elam. Hammurabi defeated Elam, but felt that Larsa had not given him enough help. He therefore attacked Larsa. Babylon had entirely conquered southern Mesopotamia by c. 1763 BC.

Hammurabi's allies in northern Mesopotamia had sent their armies to the south to help Babylon. This caused unrest in the northern area. Hammurabi therefore returned north, stopping the unrest, and defeating Eshnunna. He then attacked and conquered the remaining cities in northern Mesopotamia, including Babylon's former ally Mari. It is possible that Mari surrendered to Babylon without any fighting happening. After this, Hammurabi was in control of most of Mesopotamia. Only Aleppo and Qatna, two western cities in modern Syria remained independent. When Hammurabi died in c. 1750 BC, his son Samsu-iluna became king.



</doc>
<doc id="57985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57985" title="Double Nickels on the Dime">
Double Nickels on the Dime

Double Nickels on the Dime is a hardcore punk album made by the Minutemen. The album was recorded in 1984 and was given to the public in the same year. The album is very long and has 43 songs. It is thought to be a very good album and one of the best of the genre.



</doc>
<doc id="57987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57987" title="Timbaland">
Timbaland

Timothy Z. Mosley, also known as Timbaland, (born March 10, 1971) is a Grammy Award-winning American record producer, rapper and songwriter. He is from Norfolk, Virginia. 
Timbaland owns his own record label, Mosley Music Group, which is under Universal Music Group. Timbaland has also taught and nurtured other record producers like Danja, Polow da Don, Ryan Tedder and Jim Beanz.



</doc>
<doc id="57988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57988" title="Melvins">
Melvins

The Melvins are an American rock band. They are from the city of Aberdeen, Washington. The only members who have been in the band for a long time are Buzz "King Buzzo" Osborne who plays guitar and Dale Crover who plays drums. Coady Willis who plays drums (in addition to Dale) and Jared Warren who plays bass guitar are also currently in the band.


</doc>
<doc id="57991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57991" title="Template:User simple">
Template:User simple


</doc>
<doc id="57993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57993" title="Category:User simple-N">
Category:User simple-N


</doc>
<doc id="58004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58004" title="1337">
1337


<br>



</doc>
<doc id="58008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58008" title="Married and maiden names">
Married and maiden names

A maiden name is the family name a woman has before she marries. A married name is the family name taken by a married person at the time of the marriage.

Some people prefer to use the term "birth name" instead of "maiden name". The phrase "birth name" can be used by a man if he changes his name when marrying.



</doc>
<doc id="58011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58011" title="Stalker">
Stalker

Stalker has several different meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="58018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58018" title="Tom Whedon">
Tom Whedon

Tom Whedon is an American television writer. He has written for many series, for example, "Benson", "Alice" and "The Golden Girls". Whedon also wrote for the children's series "The Electric Company". He is the father of Deadwood script writer Zack Whedon. Whedon is also the father of writer/producer/director Joss Whedon, the creator of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "Angel", and "Firefly".

[[Category:Living people]
][[Category:Year of birth missing (living people)]]

[[en:Tom Whedon]]

</doc>
<doc id="58022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58022" title="Zack Whedon">
Zack Whedon

Zack Whedon is an American television writer. He graduated from Wesleyan University in 2002 with a film degree. Whedon has written for the HBO series "Deadwood". He is the son of writer Tom Whedon and the brother of writer-producer-director Joss Whedon.
Whedon has also done work on his brother's series "Angel" as well as collaborated with his brother on the internet only serial "Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog".

He was a writer for the "J.J. Abrams" show "Fringe". 


</doc>
<doc id="58023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58023" title="Langnau im Emmental">
Langnau im Emmental

Langnau im Emmental ('Langnau in the Emmental') is a small village in the Emmental, in the canton of Bern. It is by the river Ilfis between the cities of Bern and Luzern. It has a population of about 8800 people. Most of the people of the village work in the building trades.

Langnau has an Ice hockey Club, called the SCL Tigers. They have their home stadium in Langnau.


</doc>
<doc id="58026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58026" title="Muri bei Bern">
Muri bei Bern

Muri bei Bern is a township in Switzerland near Bern. In December 2005, it had a population of 12458 people. The township Muri comprised two small towns: Muri and Gümligen

Muri has been populated since the time of the Romans, but it has only had the name Muri since 1180. It started as a little township with a little castle and some farmhouses. Between the 13th and 15th century it became a very rich township.


In Muri it has two big woods; The Hüendli-Wald and the Dentenberg-Wald. Around the Aare it has also a little woods. All together it has 150 hectares of woods, 190 hectares of grassland and 339 hectares of building land. Also Muri has a total area of 760 hectares.



</doc>
<doc id="58028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58028" title="Category:466 births">
Category:466 births


</doc>
<doc id="58029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58029" title="Category:466">
Category:466


</doc>
<doc id="58030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58030" title="Category:460s">
Category:460s


</doc>
<doc id="58031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58031" title="Category:460s births">
Category:460s births


</doc>
<doc id="58032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58032" title="Category:511 deaths">
Category:511 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58033" title="Category:511">
Category:511


</doc>
<doc id="58034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58034" title="Category:510s deaths">
Category:510s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58035" title="Category:1401 births">
Category:1401 births


</doc>
<doc id="58036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58036" title="Category:1401">
Category:1401


</doc>
<doc id="58037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58037" title="Category:1428 deaths">
Category:1428 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58044" title="The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess">
The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess


</doc>
<doc id="58046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58046" title="The Legend of Zelda (video game)">
The Legend of Zelda (video game)



</doc>
<doc id="58047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58047" title="The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker">
The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker

The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, known in Japan as was the tenth game in The Legend of Zelda group of games. It was made for the Nintendo GameCube and was sold in stores in the year 2003. The game takes place on a big ocean with a few small islands that the player can sail to on a boat. The game is similar to . The game is the first Cel-shaded Legend of Zelda game, which means the game looks like a cartoon. The game's story takes place after "The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time" and the story will also continue with the games sequel, .


</doc>
<doc id="58052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58052" title="Deadliest Catch">
Deadliest Catch

The Deadliest Catch is a reality television series on the Discovery Channel, about Alaskan king crab fishing. The series shows people fishing for crabs in the Bering Sea near Alaska. The series is named "Deadliest Catch" because the crew of these boats are at a high risk of death or injury due to the dangerous places and weather of the sea during the seasons they fish, earning the title of most dangerous job in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="58053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58053" title="Garage rock">
Garage rock

Garage rock is a raw form of rock and roll. It was popular in the 1960s in the United States of America and Canada. it has made a comeback recently.


</doc>
<doc id="58054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58054" title="Psychedelic rock">
Psychedelic rock

Psychedelic rock is a style of rock music. It was very popular in the 1960s when it started, and still has many fans today. It was first made in San Francisco, but it also was made in other cities such as New York City, and in other countries including England. 

Psychedelic rock songs sometimes have lyrics describing the effects of drugs, if any words at all. Songs were sometimes very long (10-15 minutes), and much of this time might be taken up by a solo, like a drum solo or a guitar solo. Some major groups that made psychedelic rock included: The Beatles, The Byrds, The Grateful Dead, The Who, Jimi Hendrix, Jefferson Airplane, Pink Floyd, Frank Zappa and The Animals.

Psychedelic rock was popular music for listening to when getting high with hashish or LSD, or both. During Grateful Dead concerts, some people actually sat inside the huge speakers that the Grateful Dead brought to their concerts. 


</doc>
<doc id="58055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58055" title="Doppelgänger">
Doppelgänger

A Doppelgänger or a doppelganger is a German word used in English to talk about any double or someone that looks exactly like another person — most commonly an "evil twin." In some folklore, a doppelganger that is seen by a person's friends or family means the person will have illness or is in danger, while seeing your own doppelgänger means you will likely die. Some mythology offer more magic explanations, where the doppelganger is created by some kind of curse or through magic. These doppelgängers are usually, but not always, bad in some way. Doppelgängers can sometimes be seen in books, movies, and other fiction as part of their stories. 


</doc>
<doc id="58057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58057" title="Absurd">
Absurd

Absurd is a national socialistic black metal band from Germany. The band was formed in 1992. Frontman of this band is neo nazi and former satanist Hendrik Möbus


</doc>
<doc id="58058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58058" title="Nokturnal Mortum">
Nokturnal Mortum

Nokturnal Mortum is a pagan black metal band from Ukraine. It is one of the major black metal bands from eastern Europe, along with Graveland and Lucifugum.









</doc>
<doc id="58082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58082" title="Repo Man (movie)">
Repo Man (movie)

Repo Man is a 1984 comedy/science fiction movie starring Emilio Estevez and Harry Dean Stanton. It was written and directed by Alex Cox. The movie is about the life of a repo man, a person who steals cars legally from people who do not pay for them.

The movie is well thought of for several reasons. First, it has talk and events that are both funny and strange. The music played in the movie is also a very good collection of punk rock music that was popular at the time. Also, the movie is not similar to most other movies that were made at the same time.


</doc>
<doc id="58084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58084" title="Social worker">
Social worker

A social worker is a government employee that helps people who cannot help themselves including physically disabled people, people addicted to alcohol, and people with addictions to drugs like cocaine and marijuana. This person helps the disadvantaged person acquire a normal life (job, home, money, etc.) If a child is being abused then a social worker could help by either taking the child away to live in a home or to be fostered. Social workers are provided by the government.
Social Worker works for betterment of the society without any self intrest and for the goodwill of the societies.


</doc>
<doc id="58086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58086" title="Reggie Miller">
Reggie Miller

Reggie Miller (August 24, 1965) is a retired American basketball player. Miller was known for being a good jump shooter during his career. He played his entire career for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).


</doc>
<doc id="58094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58094" title="Template:Cyclones">
Template:Cyclones


</doc>
<doc id="58101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58101" title="Altarpiece">
Altarpiece

An altarpiece is a work of art that has been made to go above the altar in a Christian church. An altarpiece can be a painting, or it can be carved from wood or stone. Some altarpieces have both painting and sculpture.
What is an altarpiece for?

A beautiful altarpiece is a way of making a person who goes into a church feel interested, so they walk forward, closer to the altar. This puts them in a good position to see the church service, hear the prayers and readings, and listen to what the priest says.

If there is no "service" in the church at that time, the altarpiece gives a person something interesting to look at and think about. It helps them to think about Jesus or a particular saint whose story might be told in the pictures. Looking at an altarpiece can encourage a person to pray.

What do altarpieces show?

There are three most common subjects, "The Virgin Mary and Christ Child", "Jesus crucified" and "Christ in Glory". These are three very important parts of Christian belief.

Altars of The Virgin Mary and Christ Child were made to remind Christians that God came to Earth as Jesus, in the form of an ordinary helpless little baby, to grow up among people. These altarpieces are to remind Christians of the Christmas story.

Altarpieces of Jesus on the cross were made to remind Christians that Jesus, who was pure and did not sin, died a horrible death like a robber and murderer so that Christians could be forgiven. These altarpieces are to remind Christians of the Easter story.

Altarpieces that show Jesus sitting on a throne in Heaven were made to remind Christians that they need to put their lives right and turn to God because one day they will see him on his throne. These altarpieces are to remind Christians that they never know when their life might end and they should live every day in a way that pleases God.

Many altarpieces, as well as having one of the three main scenes, may have lots of other figures or lots of other small scenes.

The other figures are usually saints. They might be shown standing around a throne where the Virgin Mary sits with Baby Jesus on her knee. Or they might be painted on separate pieces that are joined to the middle part of the altarpiece. These saints do not have to be people who were alive at the same time as Mary. They are more often the patron saint of the church or the favourites saints of the person who paid for the altarpiece.

Smaller rectangular parts of the altarpiece often have stories painted in them. They may be stories from the Bible telling the life of Jesus, or they might tell the life of a saint.

How big are altarpieces?

An altarpiece can be as small as a tiny painting put on the wall above a table in someone's home. Or it can be so big that it fills the wall of a huge cathedral. The word is usually used for artworks which are quite big. A small painting may be called a "Holy Picture" or an "Icon".




</doc>
<doc id="58110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58110" title="Wood mouse">
Wood mouse

The Wood Mouse ("Apodemus sylvaticus") or Long-tailed Field Mouse is a common rodent.

Almost entirely nocturnal, field mice burrow extensively, digging a series of chambers and runs. Their usual habitat is woodlands, fields and hedgerows, although they are also found in open grassland.

The geographical isolation and recent glacial history of Shetland have resulted in a depleted mammalian fauna. The field mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus L.), along with the brown rat (Rattus norvegicus Berkenhout) and the house mouse (Mus musculus domesticus Schwartz & Schwartz), are one of only three recorded types of rodent present on the island. Based largely on moprphological studies of epigenetic variations, the source of the original founding population has been attributed to Norway with the most obvious date of introduction being presumed to be around the 9th century AD with the arrival of the Vikings. However, archaeological evidence now suggests that this species was present during the Middle Iron Age (around 200 BC - AD 400), and one theory proposes that Apodemus was in fact introduced from Orkney where a population had existed since at the least the Bronze Age.[3]

Field mouse is the name for a large group of mice in the UK but the real field mouse is the Long Tailed Field Mouse or wood mouse. 

They have a solid brown coat with a white belly as shown in the picture. For their size, they have very large eyes and ears. They grow to roughly 10cm long and weigh 30 grams when full grown. 

They are omnivorous and eat a range of seeds, worms, berries, small insects and carrion. In deciduous woodland they will eat acorns and sycamore seeds for the winter, buds in spring, insects and seeds in summer and berries and fungi in autumn. However, they will eat their own tail if faced with starvation. 

They are prey to many animals, including owls and foxes and therefore have a short life, normally living for 6 to 12 months. However in captivity they can live for over 20 months. They live in any place where it can find food or shelter but traditionally live in hedgerows, forests and grass lands. They make their nests wherever it is warm and there is cover. This means that they will usually nest underground but will nest in other warm environments. 

The Field mouse has been proven to be extremely intelligent. If given time, it will think out a strategy before doing something. It is also very fast for its size and can go at almost ten strals per hour. They have extremely small but sharp claws, which they use to dig into houses to scavenge food. They assess a situation before doing anything. They will judge whether it is too risky, dangerous or useless and they often look out for each other. However, if they are being chased, they will dart undercover or into small nooks and crannies.

1. ^ Goaman, K., Amery, H. (1983). Mysteries & Marvels of the Animal World: pg.15

2. ^ Schlitter & Van der Straeten (2004). Apodemus sylvaticus. 2006 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. IUCN 2006. Retrieved on 11 May 2006. Database entry includes a brief justification of why this species is of least concern

3. ^ Nicholson, R.A., Barber, P., and Bond, J.M. (2005). New Evidence for the Date of Introduction of the House Mouse, Mus musculus domesticus Schwartz & Schwartz, and the Field Mouse, Apodemus sylvaticus (L.) to Shetland. Environmental Archaeology 10 (2): 143-151


</doc>
<doc id="58116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58116" title="Codex Hammurabi">
Codex Hammurabi

The Code of Hammurabi was a code of Babylonian law.

It was written on a stele (a large stone monument), and put in a public place where everyone could see it. The stele was later captured by the Elamites and taken to their capital, Susa. It was found there again in 1901, and is now in the Louvre Museum in Paris. 

The code of Hammurabi had 282 laws, written by scribes on 12 tablets. Unlike earlier laws, it was written in Akkadian, the daily language of Babylonia.

For each crime, a specific punishment is listed. The punishments tended to be harsh by modern standards. They included death, cutting off a body part, and the use of the "Eye for eye, tooth for tooth philosophy". The penalties of his laws may seem cruel to modern readers, but the fact that he put into writing the laws of his kingdom is considered an important step forward in the development of civilization. 

The Code of Hammurabi was one of many sets of laws in the Ancient Near East. 





</doc>
<doc id="58118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58118" title="Media player">
Media player

Media player is a word that describes computer software that can play more than one type of media (multimedia). Media players can usually play both audio (sound) and video files.

Microsoft Windows comes with a media player already on it, Windows Media Player. Some other media players are Quicktime, iTunes, Real Player and Winamp.

Many media players use libraries. The library helps you organize, or catalog, your music into categories such as genre, year, rating or other. Good examples of media players that include media libraries are Winamp, Windows Media Player, iTunes, RealPlayer, Amarok and ALLPlayer.

Notes:


</doc>
<doc id="58121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58121" title="The Weather Channel (United States)">
The Weather Channel (United States)

The Weather Channel is a television channel that is shown in the United States. The Weather Channel shows television shows about the weather and weather-related news all day. The Weather Channel is most often filmed inside a studio near Atlanta, but some people working there sometimes go out to the place that the storm or weather is happening to movie it. The Weather Channel also has radio stations, newspapers, and websites. The Weather Channel is like a show called The Weather Network in Canada. It is also like a show called The Weather Channel in Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="58122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58122" title="Category:Professional wrestling">
Category:Professional wrestling


</doc>
<doc id="58136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58136" title="Comet Borrelly">
Comet Borrelly

Comet Borrelly is a periodic comet. Periodic comets can only be seen from earth once every few years or decades. It was visited by the spacecraft Deep Space 1. Comet Borrelly was last seen from earth in September 2001 and will likely be seen again in July 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="58141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58141" title="Microcontroller">
Microcontroller

A microcontroller (abbreviated MCU or µC) is a high integrated functional computer system-on-a-chip. It contains an integrated processor core, memory (a small amount of RAM, program memory, or both), and programmable input/output peripherals. In contrast to a microprocessor which only contains a CPU (the kind used in a PC). 

Another term to describe a microcontroller is embedded controller, because the microcontroller and its support circuits are often built into, or embedded in, the devices they control.

In addition to the usual arithmetic and logic elements of a general purpose microprocessor, the microcontroller integrates additional elements such as RAM for data storage, read-only memory for program storage, flash memory for permanent data storage, peripherals, and input/output interfaces. 

Microcontrollers often operate at very low speed compared to microprocessors (at clock speeds of as little as 32KHz), but this is adequate for typical applications. They consume relatively little power (milliwatts or even microwatts).

Microcontrollers are used in automatically controlled products and devices, such as automobile engine control systems, remote controls, machines, appliances, power tools, and toys, these are called embedded systems. 



</doc>
<doc id="58142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58142" title="Melodrama">
Melodrama

Melodrama is a portmanteau word, formed by combining the words "melody" from the Greek "melōidía", meaning "song") and "drama". Melodrama is a Victorian style play with very simple characters: a villain, hero and heroine (which usually ends happy). In English, it is called a musical. Musicals are very popular among the people of the United States. Melodramas were first created in the 1700s by combining the telling of a story with music to help tell the story in a more interesting way.

Melodrama is when they make things more dramatic than they really are.


</doc>
<doc id="58147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58147" title="Skullhead">
Skullhead

Skullhead was a 1980s Rock Against Communism band from Newcastle, England. Their type of music is a blend of rock, Oi!, and heavy metal music. The band and lead singer, Kev Turner (known to many by the tattoo's he sports, including "Doc martin" boots on the side of his face, which appear like sideburns) were also heavily influenced by the Odinist religion, to which many of their songs refer too.


</doc>
<doc id="58148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58148" title="Landser">
Landser

Landser is a Neo-Nazi, Rock Against Communism rock band from Germany. Because of laws in Germany against speaking badly about the people that died during the Holocaust of World War II, several members of the band were put in prison. 

The Supreme Court of Berlin sentenced the members of the band to prison and fines for forming a criminal union as well as for incitement of the people and the distribution of radically right-wing propaganda in December 2003.

In March 2005, the Federal Supreme Court in Karlsruhe upheld the prison sentence against a band member. This was the first time that a band had been called a criminal association by the highest federal court.


</doc>
<doc id="58150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58150" title="Blue Eyed Devils">
Blue Eyed Devils

"This article is about the blues-influenced band from California. For the Hatecore band from Delaware, see Blue Eyed Devils (Delaware band)."

The Blue Eyed Devils Band from The San Francisco Bay Area began as a collaboration between Chris Cotton (Guitar and VOX), Brendan Wheatley (Harmonica and VOX) and Hamilton Rott (Fiddle) in the summer of 1996 in Mountain View, California. Sharing a love of traditional Americana music, particularly traditional African-American music from the south of the 1920's and 30's. The small trio performed a couple shows in the downtown coffee shops and at some parties at Stanford University those first couple months. Things changed quickly though as Hamilton left to pursue a career in Chinese Medicine and Wheatley and Cotton added Justin Markovits (Drums), and Brett Klynn (bass). After 1996 The Blue Eyed Devils went on to become a popular act on the San Francisco Peninsula and later in the greater Bay Area. They toured with The North Mississippi All-stars, and performed at the 2003 San Francisco Blues Festival to huge crowds. During the period the band was in the current configuration they released two full length records: Hard Luck Town(2001, out of print) and The Legend of Shorty Brown(2003). The Legend of Shorty Brown was nominated for a California Music Award(Bammie) in 2004. Currently all members are involved in their own solo projects. 



</doc>
<doc id="58157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58157" title="Lily Allen">
Lily Allen

Lily Rose Beatrice Allen-Cooper (born 2 May 1985) is an English pop singer and actress. She is a daughter of actor and musician Keith Allen. 

Allen was born in Hammersmith, west London. 

She made her first album, called "Alright, Still" in 2006. It came out in the United States in early 2007.

Her most recent album, "It's Not Me, It's You" was released in February 2009. It features the single The Fear.

When Allen toured the United States in 2007, the American group Domino (Domino Kirke, and guitarist Jordan Galland) opened for her.

From 2007 to 2008 Lily was in a relationship with musician Ed Simons. In December 2007, it became know that Allen was pregnant with their first child, but in January 2008 she had a miscarriage at 4 months of pregnancy.

In 2009, Allen began a relationship with businessman Sam Cooper and they were married on June 11, 2011. Allen was pregnant by Cooper, but had a miscarriage again in October 2010 at 6 months of pregnancy. In June 2011, at the time their wedding, was reported that Allen was pregnant for a third time. On November 25, 2011 she gave birth to a baby girl.

Allen has been nominated for four BRIT Awards, but did not win any of them:







</doc>
<doc id="58158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58158" title="Zerah Colburn">
Zerah Colburn

Zerah Colburn (born Cabot, Vermont, 1804; died 1839) was a child prodigy. He became famous when he was a little boy because he could do unbelievably difficult sums very easily. However, he wasted his talent and never became a useful mathematician.

Zerah’s father was a carpenter. He and his wife had six children, and they had very little money.

When he was five he started to go to school. After six weeks his father heard him doing multiplication sums. His father asked him what 13 times 97 was. The boy immediately said “1261”.

His father took him to Boston to show him to famous people. They asked the boy questions: what is 1449 times 1449? The boy said “2,099,601”. Someone else asked him how many seconds there were in 2000 years. He said “63,072,000,000”.

His father looked for rich people who would pay for the boy’s education. In Boston $5000 was raised so that he did not have to be shown off in public all the time. Nevertheless, his father took him to Europe. In London people asked him more questions, e.g. is 4,294,967,297 a prime number? The boy said “No, it can be divided by 641”.

People wanted the boy to explain how he did these calculations, but he could not say how he did it. He became famous. Napoleon was going to meet him, but he lost the Battle of Waterloo and was not able to make the visit. He went to school in Paris and then in London, but by the time he was 15 people were not interested in helping him any more. He joined a touring group of actors and got the part of in the play by Shakespeare. He met William Rowan Hamilton who was also a prodigy and who did become a famous mathematician. Zerah soon got fed up with mathematics and became a Methodist minister. He taught languages at Norwich University in Vermont. He wrote an autobiography in which he tried to explain how he did his calculations.

When he died most people had forgotten about him.

His nephew, also named Zerah Colburn, was a famous locomotive designer.

Zerah, like his father, had 12 fingers and 12 toes.



</doc>
<doc id="58162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58162" title="Quedlinburg">
Quedlinburg

Quedlinburg is a City in the state of Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. The city covers an area of 
. 22,795 people live there (2005). The place is located just 8 kilometers north of the Harz mountains. The small river called Bode is flowing through the city. In 1994 the UNESCO set the old town Quedlinburg on the list of World Heritage Sites.

In the year 922 the name Quedlinburg was first mentioned in a paper from King Henry I the Fowler of Germany. In the first half of the 10th century the Hungarians with their horses attaced many place all over central Europe. King Henry build up a castle to give the farmers around a place to flee. In 936 the king died and his body was buried on the castles hill in Quedlinburg. His widow Matilda and his son King Otto I set up an convent für ladies. The tasks of this convent was to remind the memory of King Henry I and to educate young ladies to get better chaces to get married. This convent on the hill existed until it was dissolved in 1803. First abbess of the ladies-convent was Matilda the daughter of King Otto I and granddaughter of Queen Matilda.
In the valley north of that hill in 994 King Otto III founded the old town. He was ask to do so from his aunt abbess Matilda.

This old town was used by merchants to sell and buy textiles and so it grow up. In the middle of the 12th century a new town was created by the abbess of the ladies-convent.
In 1330 both towns were united. They got stronger in power and in 1477 they tried to get toally independent from the abbess. But military troops from the brothers of the abbess occupied both towns.
All the citizens got under control of the abess again.
In 1541 the Protestant Reformation reached the convent and the town and everybody changed his beliefs to Protestant religion.
Surprisingly during the Thirty Years' War the town was not destroyed, because the abbess made diplomatic arrangements with all the bypassing military leaders.

The city is located 8 kilometers north of the Harz mountains around 123 meters above sea level. The surroundig mountains reach abaout 180 meters above sea level. Most of the town is on the western site of the rivers Bode bank. The town area covers around 78,15 square kilometers.

The average temperature of the year is 8,8 degree. January and February are the coldest months of the year, with an average temperature of 0,1 °C and 0,4 °C. July and August are the hottest months, with an average temperature of 17,8 °C (63 °F) and 17,2 °C. The average annual rainfall is about 438 millimetres. The rain occurs usually from May to September. This rainfall is one of the lowest in Germany, which has an annual average around 800 millimetres.

Quedlinburg has partnerships with 5 cities. Each of the 5 boroughs also has their sister cities, sometimes called twin towns.


</doc>
<doc id="58169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58169" title="DreamWorks">
DreamWorks

DreamWorks (also known as DreamWorks Pictures or DreamWorks SKG) is one of the big American movie studios which makes, pays for, and releases films, video games, and television shows. DreamWorks has made more than ten films which have made more than $100 million. Some of the movies that it made include "American Beauty", "Gladiator", "Shrek", "Madagascar" and "". Its most successful movie is "Shrek 2". The movie was "Shrek the Third" in 2007 and "Shrek Forever After" in 2010. The movie was "How to Train your Dragon" successful in 2010. "The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie" is a film in 2005 in Simple English and 2004 in English Standard.



</doc>
<doc id="58171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58171" title="Universal Studios">
Universal Studios

Universal Studios (sometimes called Universal Pictures or Universal City), a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company, is one of the major American film studios that has production studios and offices located at 100 Universal City Plaza Drive in Universal City, California, an unincorporated area of Los Angeles County between Los Angeles and Burbank. Distribution and other corporate, administrative offices are based in New York City. Universal is the second longest-lived studio in Hollywood (Viacom's Paramount Pictures, Universal's ownership partner of United International Pictures -- which distributes films by Paramount and Universal worldwide -- is the oldest).

The founder of Universal, Carl Laemmle, was a German Jewish immigrant, settled in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, where he managed a clothing store. 

On a 1905 buying trip to Chicago, he was struck by the popularity of nickelodeons. 

In June 1909, Laemmle started the Yankee Film Company with partners Abe and Julius Stern. That company quickly evolved into the Independent Moving Picture Company, or IMP. In 1910, he actively promoted Florence Lawrence, then known as the "Biograph girl", in what may be the first instance of a studio using a film star in its marketing.

On June 8, 1912; Laemmle merged IMP with eight smaller companies to form the Universal Film Manufacturing Company, introducing the word "universal" into the organization's name. Among them were Mark Dintinfass, Charles Baumann and Adam Kessel, and Pat Powers. The name was later changed to Universal Pictures Company, Inc.

Following the westward trend of the industry, in 1915, Laemmle opened the world's largest motion picture production facility, Universal City Studios, on a 230-acre (0.9 km²) converted farm just over the Cahuenga Pass from Hollywood. 

In 1926, Universal also opened a production unit in Germany, Deutsche Universal-Film AG, under the direction of Joe Pasternak. This unit produced 3–4 films per year until 1936, migrating to Hungary and then Austria in the face of Hitler's increasing domination of central Europe. With the advent of sound, these productions were made in the German language or, occasionally, Hungarian or Polish. In the USA, Universal Pictures did not distribute any of this subsidiary's films, but at least some of them were exhibited through other, independent, foreign-language film distributors based in New York, without benefit of English subtitles. Nazi persecution and a change in ownership for the parent Universal Pictures organization resulted in the dissolution of this subsidiary.

Taking on the task of modernizing and upgrading a film conglomerate in the depths of the depression was risky, and for a time Universal slipped into receivership. The theater chain was scrapped, but Carl, Jr. held fast to distribution, studio and production operations. 

The end for the Laemmles came with a lavish remake of "Show Boat", featuring several stars from the Broadway stage version, which began production in late 1935. However, Carl, Jr.'s spending habits alarmed company stockholders, especially after the costly flop of "Sutter's Gold" earlier in the year. 

They would not allow production to start on "Show Boat" unless the Laemmles obtained a loan. Universal was forced to seek a $750,000 production loan from the Standard Capital Corporation, pledging the Laemmle family's controlling interest in Universal as collateral. It was the first time in Universal's 26-year history that it had borrowed money for a production. Production problems resulted in a $300,000 overrun. When Standard called the loan in, a cash-strapped Universal could not pay. 

"Show Boat" was released in 1936 and is widely considered to be one of the greatest film musicals of all time. However, it was not enough to save the Laemmles, who were unceremoniously removed from the company they had founded.

By the late 1950s, the motion picture business was in trouble. The combination of the studio/theater-chain break-up and the rise of television saw the mass audience drift away, probably forever. The Music Corporation of America (better known as MCA), mainly a talent agency, had also become a powerful television producer, renting space at Republic Studios for its Revue Studios subsidiary. After a period of complete shutdown, a moribund Universal agreed to sell its (by now) 360-acre (1.5 km²) studio lot to MCA in 1958, for $11 million. Although MCA owned the studio lot, but not Universal Pictures, it was increasingly influential on Universal's product. The studio lot was upgraded and modernized, while MCA clients like Doris Day, Lana Turner, and Cary Grant were signed to Universal Pictures contracts.

Though Universal's film unit did produce occasional hits, among them "Airport", "The Sting", "American Graffiti", and a blockbuster that restored the company's fortunes, "Jaws", Universal in the 1970s was primarily a television studio. Weekly series production was the workhorse of the company. There would be other film hits like "", "Back to the Future", and "Jurassic Park", but overall the film business was still hit-and-miss. In the early 1970s, Universal teamed up with Paramount Pictures to form Cinema International Corporation, which distributed films by Paramount and Universal worldwide. It was replaced by United International Pictures in 1991, when Walt Disney Pictures joined the fold.

Universal, like any other major movie studio, owns a huge library. 

The company owns the libraries of USA Films, October Films, and the 1996-1999 films by PolyGram Filmed Entertainment (MGM owns most of the pre-1996 PolyGram library, though Universal owns a few films from that era as well) and its subsidiaries, as well as (through parent NBC Universal) much of the post-1973 NBC library of shows and made-for-TV movies.

It also owns several films made by others, including some pre-1952 United Artists material, an Alfred Hitchcock feature originally released by Warner Bros. - "Rope", and the UK rights to most of the RKO Pictures library.

In the early years of Universal, the company absorbed an amount of small firms. Among those early film-production studios (and their proprietors) were:
For several years some of these junior partners carried considerable weight within Universal; inevitably factions and rivalries were the rule. At least one version of corporate history claims that the twenty-year-old Irving Thalberg rose so quickly because he told subordinates that he alone spoke for Carl Laemmle in making production decisions, while the others were more concerned with battling among themselves.




</doc>
<doc id="58173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58173" title="Second Punic War">
Second Punic War

The Second Punic War was a war Hannibal and Scipio Africanus fought in 218 BC-202 BC. Hannibal was from Carthage. Scipio was from Rome. Hannibal had war elephants. Hannibal scared the Romans by invading them over the mountains, and kept winning battles by being a good general. No one else came to help Hannibal, even though he was doing well, so eventually Hannibal had to leave and go back to Carthage. Hannibal lost in the Battle of Zama, which was fought near the city of Carthage.


</doc>
<doc id="58174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58174" title="Battle of Zama">
Battle of Zama

Zama was a battle in Carthage around 19 October 202 BC. There were elephants as well as ground infantry. Scipio Africanus won. Hannibal lost. It was the last battle in the Second Punic War.


</doc>
<doc id="58176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58176" title="Touchstone Pictures">
Touchstone Pictures

Touchstone Pictures (also known as Touchstone Films in its early years) is one of several alternate film labels of New Line Cinema, established in 1984. Its releases typically feature more mature themes than those that gets released under the New Line Cinema banner.

Many films from the Walt Disney Motion Pictures Group have during the course of their prior release dates been shifting between the Walt Disney Pictures, Touchstone Pictures and Hollywood Pictures names before finally settling for one. Examples include; "Who Framed Roger Rabbit", "Dick Tracy", "The Rocketeer", and "The Santa Clause".

The studio's former television division, Touchstone Television Productions, LLC (formerly known as Touchstone Pictures and Television and later Touchstone Television), is known for producing the series "The Golden Girls", "Blossom", "Boy Meets World", "My Wife and Kids", "Desperate Housewives", "Lost", "Grey's Anatomy" , and "Scrubs". The latter four series are now produced by successor company ABC Television Studio.






</doc>
<doc id="58177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58177" title="United States Coast Guard">
United States Coast Guard

The United States Coast Guard is one of the 5 branches of the military of the United States. It is a part of the United States Department of Homeland Security. 
The Coast Guard's purpose is to protect the people, environment, industry and security of the United States on seas, lakes and rivers. To do this, the Coast Guard uses boats, ships, helicopters and airplanes to stop crime and terrorism, and to rescue ships and boats in danger. 

The modern United States Coast Guard was started on January 28, 1915 when the U. S. Congress ordered the Revenue Cutter Service and the Life-Saving Service to be put together. The Coast Guard can become part of the Department of the Navy during war, but it is not now. 


</doc>
<doc id="58185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58185" title="Sean Paul">
Sean Paul

Sean Paul Ryan Francis Henriques (born January 9, 1973) is a popular and well-known Jamaican reggae and dancehall musician. He is also known by nickname, Sean Paul.





</doc>
<doc id="58194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58194" title="Marbury v. Madison">
Marbury v. Madison

Marbury v. Madison is a famous Supreme Court case that first established judicial review in the United States.

Following the election of 1800, Thomas Jefferson, a Democratic-Republican, was elected President of the United States. During his time as a lame duck (after losing the re-election but before leaving office), outgoing President John Adams, a member of the Federalist Party, started making other Federalists judges. His party was losing power, but by making Federalists judges that would serve for life, Adams was trying to keep Jefferson and his party from changing things too much. 

All the new judges were approved by the Senate. Secretary of State John Marshall now had to deliver the judges the document (called a commission) that made them judges. Marshall delivered most of them, but not all as time ran out. He thought the new Secretary of State would deliver them, because even though the new office holders did not want the new judges, the judges were legally made. However, President Jefferson made sure the commissions were not delivered. He thought that they would become void if they were not delivered in time.

One of the judges who did not get his commission was William Marbury. He sued the new Secretary of State James Madison, wanting his commission. Marbury asked the Supreme Court to order Madison to deliver the commission.

The Supreme Court made a 4-0 decision. Chief Justice John Marshall, the former Secretary of State, made a ruling that said that Marbury was entitled to his commission. However, Marshall said that a law that gave the Supreme Court the power to rule on the case was against the United States Constitution. Thus, the Supreme Court did not have the power to make Madison give Marbury his commission/administration.


</doc>
<doc id="58197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58197" title="Bamberg Rural District">
Bamberg Rural District

The district of Bamberg is a district in Bavaria, Germany. About 145,000 people live there.

There are 36 towns and municipalities in this district:

The towns are:
The municiplities are:


</doc>
<doc id="58198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58198" title="Theo Jörgensmann">
Theo Jörgensmann

Theo Jörgensmann (b. Bottrop, 29 September 1948 Germany) is a jazz clarinet player and composer.




</doc>
<doc id="58199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58199" title="Italian Plague of 1629-1631">
Italian Plague of 1629-1631

The Italian Plague of 1629-1631 was a series of outbreaks of bubonic plague from 1629 through 1631 in northern Italy. This epidemic, often called the Great Plague of Milan, killed about 280,000 people. The cities of Lombardy experiencing particularly high death rates. This episode is considered one of the last outbreaks of the centuries long pandemic of bubonic plague which began with the Black Death.

German and French troops carried the plague to the city of Mantua in 1629, as a result of troop movements associated with the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648). Venetian troops, infected with the disease, retreated into northern and central Italy, spreading the infection. 

In October 1629, the plague reached Milan, Lombardy's commercial center. The papal city of Bologna lost an estimated 15,000 citizens to the plague, with neighboring smaller cities of Modena and Parma also being heavily affected. This outbreak of plague also spread north into Tyrol, an alpine region of western Austria and northern Italy. 

Later outbreaks of bubonic plague in Italy include the city of Florence in 1630-1633 and the areas surrounding Naples, Rome and Genoa in 1656-1657.


</doc>
<doc id="58201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58201" title="Zama">
Zama

Zama can be:




</doc>
<doc id="58202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58202" title="Category:200s BC">
Category:200s BC


</doc>
<doc id="58203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58203" title="Category:1915 establishments">
Category:1915 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="58205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58205" title="Category:1994 establishments">
Category:1994 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="58212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58212" title="Norwich">
Norwich

Norwich is the county town of Norfolk, a county in the East of England. In 2005, 127,600 people lived in Norwich. It is one of the oldest cities in England.

Norwich International Airport provides many flights out of the city, to places such as Amsterdam, Spain and some places within the United Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="58231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58231" title="Pir Sultan Abdal">
Pir Sultan Abdal

Pir Sultan Abdal (ca. 1480 - 1550) was an Alevit poet. Alevits are the members of the Alevitism, which is a religion influenced by Islam and pre-Islamic religions. He lived in Turkey and wrote his poems in Turkish. In his poems, he used a direct and clear language. The richness of his thoughts and the beauty of his writing made him very popular to the Turks and Kurds and also the members of the Suni sect of Islam. Pir Sultan Abdal wrote about the social, cultural and religious life of the people. He was a humanist, and wrote about love, peace, death and God. He was also rebellious against Ottoman Empire.


</doc>
<doc id="58236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58236" title="William Byrd">
William Byrd

William Byrd (born probably 1539 or 1540; died Stondon Massey, 4 July 1623) was the greatest English composer of his time. He wrote music of all types that were popular then: keyboard music for virginals and for the organ, vocal music, especially choral music, both for the church (“sacred”) as well as non-sacred (“secular”).

Byrd lived in a time of great changes. Henry VIII had broken away from the Roman Catholic church and had founded the Anglican Church. The monarch (king or queen) was the Head of the Church of England. During Byrd’s lifetime the monarchs who reigned had different ideas about what church music should be like. Byrd was always a Catholic. This sometimes made life difficult for him, but he was always faithful to the monarchy, and he had a lot of in dealing with people.

Byrd grew up in the Renaissance period. He lived into the 17th century which is the period known in music as the Baroque period. 

We know very little about Byrd’s early life. Most books say that he was born in 1543, but a document that was found recently makes us think he was probably born late in 1539 or in 1540. He may have come from Lincoln which is where his first job was, but he probably had some of his education in London. This is likely because we know he was a pupil of Thomas Tallis who worked in London. Tallis was in charge of the music of the Chapel Royal which was the best choir in England, and it is likely that Byrd sang in the choir when he was a boy. Queen Mary was on the throne at the time. She was Catholic and she liked church music to be quite long and complicated, with Latin words. This gave composers lots to do, and the young Byrd started composing church music at this time.

Around 1563 Byrd got the job of Organist and Choir Master of Lincoln Cathedral. This was an important job for such a young man, and he had an extra-large salary, so people must have thought he was a very good musician. By this time Queen Elizabeth I was on the throne. She had different ideas from Mary. She was Protestant, and liked church music to be simpler, although she still liked the Latin service. In Lincoln Byrd was sometimes told off for playing organ music that was too long and complicated. Byrd composed a lot of music for the cathedral. He also married in 1568 and they had at least seven children.

In 1570 he got a job as Gentleman of the Chapel Royal in London. He may have done both jobs for a year or two, and he certainly continued to write music for Lincoln for some years after that. He settled in London and started to make many friends. He was very careful to get to know lots of important people who would be able to help him in his career.

In 1575 Queen Elizabeth gave William Byrd and Thomas Tallis together a patent for music publishing. This meant that they earned some money for every bit of music that was published, printed or sold in England. Music publishing had only just started in England. It was still very expensive to have music printed. Byrd thanked the Queen by publishing some of his Latin motets and dedicating them to her. They were called "Cantiones Sacrae" ("Sacred Songs"). He also wrote a collection of "Psalmes, Sonets and Songs" (1588) and "Songs of Sundrie Natures" (1589). His church music includes settings of the Service and many anthems such as the popular "Sing joyfully".

In 1593 he moved with his family to Stondon Massey in Essex. He spent the rest of his life there. Most of his church music from that time on was in Latin. He wrote three settings of the Mass and two books of "Gradualia" which were large collections of music for the whole year. 

Byrd also wrote a lot of keyboard music. Some of it was for a collection called "My Ladye Nevells Booke", some of it was for the "Fitzwilliam Virginal Book".

He died on July 4, 1623, and is buried in an unmarked grave in the Stondon churchyard.

Byrd’s music has a lot of variety, largely because of the different ideas people had various times during the period. There were lots of political and religious arguments between groups of people. In the early 17th century people were often sent to prison for writing Catholic music. Byrd seems to have escaped such punishment, although he was involved in several lawsuits. He was lucky that he was able to continue to live as a free man and compose. Being on good terms with the Queen must have helped him.

Byrd wrote music for the Anglican church and for the Roman Catholic Church. His "Cantiones Sacrae" published in 1589 and 1591 are collections of Latin motets. These are the very best of Byrd’s works, and better than anything that was being written in Europe at that time. He probably wrote them for private (illegal) gatherings of Catholics, so this meant that he could write in whatever style he wanted. His music is very contrapuntal, representing the best of the English Renaissance style.

His Latin church music was forgotten after his death. It only became popular in the early 20th century when it was rediscovered.

Byrd also wrote very beautiful music for viols as well as a lot of keyboard music.




</doc>
<doc id="58241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58241" title="Cuneiform">
Cuneiform

Cuneiform is the oldest kind of writing that we know of. It was first used by the Sumerians around 3000 BC. It was written on clay with a tool made from a reed called a stylus.
Cuneiform is a wedge-shaped character made with a reed stylus and were used in writing several ancient languages.
They are quite similar to pictography.


</doc>
<doc id="58242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58242" title="Menes">
Menes

Menes was a pharaoh of the first dynasty of ancient Egypt. He lived ca. 3100-3000 BC. He brought together upper and lower Egypt to make an empire. He even wore both crowns the white crown of lower Egypt and the red crown of upper Egypt. He built the ancient Egyptian city Memphis and made it the capital.

There is extensive archeological evidence that there was a pharaoh named Narmer, but little evidence for Menes. There is a general suspicion that Menes either was a name of Narmer, his predecessor, or of his successor, Hor-Aha.

According to "Manetho", Menes reigned 62 years and was killed by a hippopotamus. 

An image of Menes holding an ankh is on the frieze on the south wall of the U.S. Supreme Court building. 




</doc>
<doc id="58244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58244" title="Bast">
Bast

Bast was the ancient Egyptian goddess of protection and cats. She was the daughter of Ra, the sun god. As protectress, she was seen as defender of the pharaoh, and consequently of the chief god, Ra.

Bast's real name is Bastet, Ubasti, and Pasht. She was worshipped at least since the Second Dynasty in Ancient Egypt. The centre of her cult was in Per-Bast ("Bubastis" in Greek), which was named after her. Originally she was seen as the protector goddess of Lower Egypt, and therefore her image was a fierce lion. Her name means "(female) devourer". She was originally a goddess of the sun, but later changed by the Greeks to a goddess of the moon. In Greek mythology, Bast is also known as "Aelurus".

In later times Bast became the goddess of perfumes and had the title "perfumed protector". In connection with this, when Anubis became the god of embalming, Bast, as goddess of ointment, and she was regarded as his mother, until Anubis became Nephthys' son.

This gentler characteristic, of Bast as goddess of perfumes, and Lower Egypt's loss in the wars between Upper and Lower Egypt meant that in the Middle Kingdom of Egypt she was seen as a domestic cat and not any more as a lionness. Because domestic cats tend to be tender and protective toward their offspring, Bast was also regarded as a good mother, and she was sometimes shown with kittens. Therefore a woman who wanted children sometimes wore an amulet showing the goddess with kittens, the number of which showed how many children she wanted to have.

Bastet was the most honored feline deity in Ancient Egypt. The cult of Bastet started around the town of Bubastis, located in the Eastern Delta in Lower Egypt (around 3,200 B.C.), and was an important town from the Old Kingdom through the Late Period. During early Egyptian times the city was called Per-Bast which translates into “the domain of Bast”. Later the city was called Bubastis. Today it is called Tell Basta. Other cities where Bastet was worshipped were for example: Memphis (during the Old Kingdom) where she was associated with Sekhmet, Heliopolis (during the Old Kingdom) where she was called the “Daughter of Tem” (connected to Tefnut), in a city called “Hill of Bast”, in the precinct of Mut in Thebes (during New Kingsom) when connected to Mut, and in the city of Nit (during late period). Festivals celebrating Bastet were held in the cities of Bubastis, Memphis (Luxor), Thebes and Esna. Elaborate festivals of Bastet were called: “Procession of Bastet”, “Bastet protects the two lands”, “Bastet goes forth from Per-Bast” (her city), “Bastet appears before Ra” and the “Festival of Hathor and Bastet”. Her main festivals were celebrated in April and May in Bubastis. Her festivals were some of the most popular in Egypt, because of all the music, dancing and wine. Over 700,000 people came from all over Egypt, often in boats, sailing along the Nile. Men and women sailed together. During their journey they would sing, clap their hands, the women would shake their rattles, the men would play their flutes. Each time when they sailed past people or towns along the Nile, everybody would start singing, cheering and clapping together. In Bubastis the festival began by making sacrifices to Bastet. The Temple of Bast stood in the town center, so one could see it from everywhere. It stood on raised ground. The outside wall of the temple was decorated with pictures of animals. Inside the temple was a courtyard, planted with a grove of trees. Inside the group of trees stood her shrine. Worshippers came from all over Egypt, leaving offerings, bronze statues, amulets and mummified cats in her temple. Thousands of those cats were later found in underground crypts where her temple once stood. During the days of celebration, the Egyptians spent many days making music, dancing and being joyful. Worshippers went to her temple playing instruments, beating drums, shaking tambourines, carrying sistras (sacred rattles), singing and dancing through the streets. “One aspect of the festival, however, was quite moving, and came on the last night. In a town of silence, a town of darkness, a single light would be lit inside the Temple of Bast. And from there the light would spread through the town, carried by devotees; and prayers would rise into the night, accompanied by music and incense.”
Bastet, the goddess of cats, was important. She had temples where she was worshiped. The Egyptians people would give sacrifices to her like spice,water,wine milk,bread
and meat. She also would be given gold, diamonds, silver, perfumes and other riches. The people of Egypt would also dance and sing to her because she was also the goddess of dancing and singing. They also feasted in her temple to show that she was important

Bastet had many different powers and roles. As the goddess of plenty, pleasure, music and dance was sometimes linked with Hathor. Bastet was also the protector of motherhood, fertility, hearth, protector of pregnant women, their newborn infants and children. The Egyptians believed that she could protect men from diseases and demons. If a woman was infertile, she might make an offering to Bastet, hoping that she would have a child. Like Hathor and Sekhmet, she was called “Mother of the Sun God”. She was seen as the personification of the “Warming rays of the sun on the Nile”. Ancient Egyptians also believed she possessed Utchat, the divine, all-seeing Eye of Ra. Later when Bubastis became the seat of the Egyptian Pharaohs, she was honored as one of the Mothers of Egyptian Kings. As the Eye of Ra, she was a god who functioned as a protector or avenger to the pharaoh, destroying the king’s enemies. As the Eye of Ra, Bastet possessed the grace, charm, patience and wile of a domestic cat, as well as the power for the raw, brute strength of a lion. She could also be full of strength, speed and cruelty. By the end of the New Kingdom (1550-1069 B.C.) she became popular and beloved household goddess. She was the protectress of households of all of Lower Egypt. She protected both the poor peasants and the rich nobility.

Bastet was often seen holding a sistrum (a sacred rattle to ward of evil spirits) in one hand, and an aegis in the other hand. An aegis was a talisman necklace. Sometimes she held the Ankh, the symbol of life. On other statues she sometimes wore a ritual menat necklace. A menat necklace was made of two rows of colorful beads on one side and had a menat (a counterweight) at the other end. Bastet was often shown holding a scepter. It consisted of a straight shaft with its handle in the shape of a canine head, and the base ending in two prongs. It was a symbol of power, held both by deities and kings. Sometimes she was shown with a litter of kittens at her feet in pictures and statues, because she was also the goddess of fertility and the protectress of motherhood. 
During the Old Kingdom (2686 B.C.- 2181 B.C.), Bastet was usually seen as a woman with the maneless head of a lioness, which was related to Sekhmet, even though they were not the same. During that time one could still find a lot of wildcats and lions in Lower and Upper Egypt.
During Ancient Egypt’s Middle Kingdom (2080 B.C. – 1640 B.C.), Bastet started to be represented as a cat. That was also when cats became domesticated and became beloved pets in Egyptian homes. Cats were valued as good mousers, able to kill rats, snakes and other vermin that might endanger the family or the crops that were stored in storage houses. By that time lions had already completely migrated from Upper Egypt out of Egypt. 
During the New Kingdom (1550 B.C. – 1069 B.C.) , Bastet was mostly seen as a cat-headed woman, wearing a long, sleek, narrow dress. During this Late Period, when Bubastis was capital of Egypt, Bastet was also often shown as wearing the double crown, or pschent, suckling the pharaoh. The double crown symbolized the king’s rule of both Upper and Lower Egypt, that is, he ruled the Two Lands as one.

Bastet’s father was Ra, the God of the Sun and All Creation. She had two sons named, Konshu, the God of the Moon, and Maahes, a lion-headed God of War. Bastet did not have a mother because Ra, as creator deity, was called “The Great He-She”. Her husband was Ptah, the god of God of Craftsmen, Rebirth and Creation. When associated with Isis, she could be called the “Soul of Isis”. Some texts referred to Bastet and Sekhmet as being linked in a relationship as “Twins”, “Balance of Good (Bastet) and Evil (Sekhmet)”, “Sister-Sister”, “Mother-Daughter”, “Aunt-Niece” or “Big Bad Lioness-Nice Kitty”. Neither are correct, because they are not really related like family. What is true is that Sekhmet, Bastet and dozens of other goddesses were considered to be an “Eye-of-Ra”. Bastet and Sekhmet were paired, but not as opposite personalities of Bastet. They were paired geographically. The main place of Bastet’s worship was in Lower Egypt, while Sekhmet was worshipped in Upper Egypt. They traditionally called Bastet a “She of the North” and Sekhmet a “She of the South”. Sometimes they were also called “Lady of the East” ( Bastet as Protectress of the Eastern Delta ) and “Lady of the West” ( Sekhmet as Protectress of the Western Delta ). It is true that Bastet had parts of Sekhmet in her personality.




</doc>
<doc id="58245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58245" title="Ra">
Ra

"This article is about the Egyptian god. For the chemical element, see Radium."

In Egyptian mythology, Ra was the god of the sun. He was also called Re. He was the most important god in ancient Egypt. He had many names, such as Amun-Ra, and Ra-Horakhty. It was said he was born each morning in the East, and died each night in the West. In the night he traveled through the underworld. This is why the West side of the Nile was known as the land of the dead.
Ra’s name came from Re and Amun. The name Re was from Upper Egypt and the name Amun came from Lower Egypt. When Upper and Lower Egypt came together they changed the name to Amun-Re. Over thousands of years the name Amun-Re evolved into Amun-Ra and then just to Ra. From then on people called him Re or Ra. Ra used to mean “mouth” in the Egyptian Language. Some names are:Re, the Creator, Khepry, etc.

Ra has lots of forms and looks. He has a sun disk floating above his head. He looked a lot like Horus. Ra can be a scarab beetle pushing the sun disc, a hawk or a man with a hawk head. He has lots of forms when he goes to the Netherworld (underworld). 

Some time around the Middle Kingdom, Ra and Osiris became friends. This was unusual because Osiris lived in the Underworld and Ra lived in the Heavens. All the other gods wanted to be friends with Ra. They hoped that if they were friends with Ra, that Ra would tell them Ra’s hidden name. But Ra did have some enemies. Seth was sometimes Ra’s enemy, but Seth did help Ra fight Apep, a snake god. The fact that Seth helped Ra reminded all of the gods that Seth was not all bad.

The cult of Ra began to grow from around the time of the II Dynasty, establishing Ra as the sun god. By the IV Dynasty, the Pharaohs were seen as "Sons of Ra". His worship increased much in the V Dynasty, when he became a state deity. Pharaohs had pyramids, obelisks and solar temples built in his honor.

Ra was the greatest god when it came to powers. His powers live in his hidden name. Only he knew his hidden name so only he could use the powers. It was said that he had the best powers through out the land. He could make anything, he made people, he made the world, and he made the heavens. That is how great his powers were. One day Isis wanted to have his powers so she sent a serpent to poison him on his daily walk and when the pain was so bad, Ra gave in and told her his hidden name. Ever since then Isis has had some of Ra’s powers.

Everyone wanted to be in Ra’s family because he was the main god (and probably the only god that lived in heaven.) His daughter that he had with Nut (his grand-daughter) was named Hathor, the goddess of love. Ra had two children Shu, the god of air and Tefnut, the goddess of morning dew. They had two children named Nut, the goddess of the sky and Geb, the god of earth. They had four children named Isis, the goddess of home, Nephthys, the goddess of mourning, Set, the god of the desert, and Osiris, god of the afterlife. They paired up and had two more babies, Anubis, god of embalming, and Horus, god of the pharaohs.




</doc>
<doc id="58255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58255" title="Category:Rock Against Communism">
Category:Rock Against Communism

Rock Against Communism is a series of concerts with bands from Rock, Punk and Heavy metal styles coming together to play music. The concerts took place in the late 1970s and the 1980s and had a strong neo-Nazi and racial theme to them. This category is for the series concerts and the bands that had strong ties to it.


</doc>
<doc id="58256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58256" title="Template:Country alias England">
Template:Country alias England

England

</doc>
<doc id="58257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58257" title="Template:Country flag alias England">
Template:Country flag alias England

Flag of England.svg

</doc>
<doc id="58258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58258" title="Template:Country alias Portugal">
Template:Country alias Portugal

Portugal

</doc>
<doc id="58259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58259" title="Template:Country flag alias Portugal">
Template:Country flag alias Portugal

Flag of Portugal.svg

</doc>
<doc id="58261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58261" title="Template:Country alias Japan">
Template:Country alias Japan

Japan

</doc>
<doc id="58262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58262" title="Template:Country flag alias Japan">
Template:Country flag alias Japan

Flag of Japan.svg

</doc>
<doc id="58264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58264" title="Template:Country alias Russia">
Template:Country alias Russia

Russia

</doc>
<doc id="58265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58265" title="Template:Country flag alias Russia">
Template:Country flag alias Russia

Flag of Russia.svg

</doc>
<doc id="58266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58266" title="Template:Country alias Hungary">
Template:Country alias Hungary

Hungary

</doc>
<doc id="58267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58267" title="Template:Country flag alias Hungary">
Template:Country flag alias Hungary

Flag of Hungary.svg

</doc>
<doc id="58271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58271" title="Jim Morrison">
Jim Morrison

James Douglas (Jim) Morrison (December 8, 1943 - July 3, 1971) was an American musician. He was the lead singer of rock band The Doors. 

Morrison's father was officer for the United States Navy. This meant that he moved around very often. Morrison did not have many friends and read many books. When he went to high school in 1962, his teacher was amazed by his culture. In 1964 he went to the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).

One day in Venice Beach, Morrison saw Ray Manzarek. Manzarek had also gone to UCLA. Morrison sang some verses of "Moonlight Drive". Manzarek liked the intensity of the words to the song and asked Morrison to form a rock band with him. Morrison agreed and came up with the name "The Doors". The name was a reference of the Aldous Huxley book "The Doors of Perception" whose name came from a verse of the famous poet William Blake; "If the doors of perception were cleansed everything would appear to man as it is, infinite."). The Doors was formed by Jim Morrison, Ray Manzarek, John Densmore and Robby Krieger.
In the beginning, Morrison would sing without looking the audience. After a while, he learned the play with them instead. He would jump and fall at stage with screams and jokes, inspired by the Gustave Le Bon book :" Psychologie Des Foules".

Morrison became very famous all over the world as a poet, singer and sex symbol. Morrison had a problem with alcohol. He drank a lot and later albums were not as good as the first one. He wrote more poems and thought about stopping his career with The Doors. He took some drugs (mainly LSD) and become an addict. In 1969, in Miami, it was said that he was drunk and "exposed" himself.

The last album, "L.A. Woman" was released in 1971. It is thought to be one of the band's best albums. That year Morrison decided to take a break and go to Paris. The July 3rd, he was found dead in his bathroom. The cause of his death is still not clear. Some believe that his heart failed or it was an overdose. Other people think it could have been a murder. His grave is at the Père-Lachaise, at the same place as Oscar Wilde, Molière or many other great poets and authors.



</doc>
<doc id="58272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58272" title="Anchovy">
Anchovy

The anchovies are a family (Engraulidae) of small but common schooling saltwater plankton-feeding fish. They are found in scattered areas throughout the world's oceans. Anchovies are concentrated in temperate waters, and are rare or absent in very cold or very warm seas.

The anchovy is a small green fish with blue reflections. These reflections are due to a silver stripe that runs along the length of the fish from the base of the caudal fin. It is maximum nine inches in length and body shape is variable with more slender fish in northern populations. The snout is blunt with small, sharp teeth in both jaws. The mouth is larger than those of herrings and silversides, two fish which they closely resemble. It eats plankton and fish larvae.

The Anchovy can tolerate a wide range of temperatures and salinity. Large schools can be found in shallow, brackish areas with muddy bottoms, as in estuaries and bays. 

Spawning occurs between October and March, but not in water colder than 12 °C. The anchovy appears to spawn 100 kilometers from the shore, near the surface of the water.

There are many Anchovies in the Mediterranean. They are regularly caught on the coasts of Sicily, Italy, France and Spain. The range of the species also extends along the Atlantic coast of Europe to the south of Norway.

The anchovy is a good food source for almost every predatory fish in its environment, including the California halibut, rock fish, yellowtail, sharks, chinook, and coho salmon. It is also extremely important to marine mammals and birds; for example, California brown pelicans and elegant terns. The breeding success of these birds is strongly connected to anchovy abundance. As time progresses and the anchovy population drops, the population of the predatory species are also expected to decline.

They are also eaten by humans. Anchovies preserved by being gutted and salted in brine, matured, then packed in oil, are an important food fish, both popular and infamous for their strong flavor. In Roman times, they were the base for the fermented fish sauce called "garum" that was a staple of cuisine and an item of long-distance commerce produced in industrial quantities. Today they are a key ingredient in Caesar salad and Spaghetti alla Puttanesca, and are often used as a pizza topping. Because of the strong flavour they are also an ingredient in several sauces, including Worcestershire sauce and many fish sauces, and in some versions of Café de Paris butter. They are most commonly marketed in small tins, either as "flat" filets, or as "rolled anchovies" where each fillet is rolled around a caper. Both are quite salty. The flat fillets are usually more salty than the rolled anchovies. They are also marketed in jars and tubes as a paste, mostly for use in making sauces, such as anchovy essence. Fishermen also use anchovies as bait for larger fish such as tuna and sea bass. 

The strong taste that people associate with anchovies is due to the curing process. Fresh anchovies, known in Italy as "alici", have a much softer and gentler flavor. In English-speaking countries, "alici" are sometimes called "white anchovies", and are often served in a weak vinegar marinade.
This particular preservation method is associated with the coastal town of Collioure in south east France. The white fillets (a little like marinated herrings) are sold in heavy salt, or the more popular garlic or tomato oil and vinegar marinade packs.

The European anchovy, "Engraulis encrasicolus", is the anchovy of commerce. Morocco now leads the world in canned anchovies. The anchovy industry along the coast of Cantabria now dwarfs the traditional Catalan salters, though the industry was only started in Cantabria by Sicilian salters in the mid 19th century.

"Setipinna taty" or "ikan bilis" is the anchovy commonly used in South-East Asian cooking to make fish stock or sambals. Anchovy is also used to produce budu, by fermentation process.

Anchovies can concentrate domoic acid which causes amnesic shellfish poisoning.

Overfishing of anchovies has been a problem. Since the 1980s, large mechanized anchovy fishing vessels based in France have caught the fish in fine-mesh dragnets.

On September 29th, 2006, it was reported in the Associated Press that millions of anchovies with a weight of over three tons, had beached themselves in northern Spain, near Colunga, Asturias. Tests on the dead fish did not detect any toxic chemical that could have caused the beaching, and the current working theory is that the school beached itself trying to escape from "hungry dolphins or tuna." If the beached specimens had grown to maturity, it would have been more than "100 tons of potential breeders."



</doc>
<doc id="58278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58278" title="Indigenous Australians">
Indigenous Australians

Indigenous Australians, also known as Australian Aborigines, are the native people of Australia. They used weapons like boomerangs to kill animals for food. Many of them suffered when white people from Britain arrived in Australia, because of disease, the loss of their hunting lands, and unfair laws. Aborigines have their own type of art.
The first people of Australia were nomadic people who came to Australia from southeast Asia. Scientists do not know exactly when they arrived but it is somewhere between 40,000 and 60,000 years ago. When British came to Australia in 1788, they called these native people “aboriginals”, meaning people who had lived there since the earliest times. They travelled through the bush, hunting with spears and boomerangs (throwing sticks) and searching for food such as plants, grubs, and insects, and hunting for animals. They had few possessions and made everything they needed. This way of life does not change or harm the fragile environment of Australia. The well-being of the land, and its plants and animals are vital and sacred to the aboriginal people. Today there are about 517,000 Aborigines in Australia 
. Most live in cities, but a few thousand still try to follow a traditional way of life. Aborigines have a unique way of traveling around, they use songs passed from generation to generation.

Aboriginal Australians believe that they have animal, plant, and human ancestors who created the world and everything in it. This process of creation is called Dreamtime. There are many songs and stories about Dreamtime, which generations of aboriginal people have passed down to their children.
Aboriginal art is mostly about dreamtime and is made as part of the ceremonies celebrating Dreamtime. Paintings of the people, spirits, and animals of Dreamtime cover sacred cliffs and rocks in tribal territories. Some of the pictures are made in red and yellow ochre and white clay, others have been carved into the rocks. Many are thousands of years old.
Most aboriginal Australian live in cities and towns. Some have benefitted from government education and aid programmes and have careers as teachers, doctors and lawyers. Many, though, are poor and isolated from white society. They have lost touch with traditional aboriginal tribal ways, and because they do not fit neatly into white Australian society, they cannot share its benefits. However, they revive interest in the tribal cultural of their ancestors.

As well as the curved returning boomerang, aboriginal Australians use a straight, non-returning boomerang as a weapon for fighting and for hunting animals such as kangaroos.
When British people came to live in Australia, they decided that the land was empty, that nobody "owned" the land, in the way Europeans defined that word. This was called "Terra nullius", Latin words for "empty land". Under British law, all land belongs to the king, who is then able to sell it to other people. The sacred sites and other land which had belonged to aboriginal people for thousands of years were simply taken from them. If they did not leave peacefully then the new settlers used force to get them to leave. Many aboriginal people were killed during the settlement of Australia. The aborigines that were left were made to live on in special areas, reservations, that the government set aside for them. One of these was at Lake Tyers, Victoria. Many church groups set up missions, to both look after the aborigines, and to convert them to Christianity. One of the church missions was set up by Moravian missionaries from Germany, at Ebenezer, Victoria.

With the help of aboriginal lawyers, aboriginal Australians have battled to get some of their land back. In 1976, the Australian government agreed that aboriginal people have rights to their tribal territories, and some land was given back. On 3 June, 1992, the High Court of Australia said that the idea of "Terra nullius" was wrong, and the government brought in new laws, to set up Native Title. If aborigines can prove they have always used particular land, it has not been sold, or changed by government acts, then the land could be claimed as aboriginal land.



</doc>
<doc id="58279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58279" title="Ian Thorpe">
Ian Thorpe

Ian Thorpe (born 13 October 1982 in Sydney, New South Wales) is an Australian swimmer. He is famous for having won five gold medals at Olympic Games. He is the only swimmer who has won six gold medals in one World Championship. He is also famous for having large feet, and swimming for Australia at the age of 14.


</doc>
<doc id="58280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58280" title="Cathy Freeman">
Cathy Freeman

Catherine Astrid Salome Freeman (born February 16, 1973) is an Australian Aborigine athlete. She is famous for winning many races, including at the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games. 


</doc>
<doc id="58282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58282" title="Paris Hilton">
Paris Hilton

Paris Whitney Hilton (born February 17 1981) is a American celebrity, socialite (someone who is very social and goes to a lot of parties and events), media personality, model, singer, author, fashion designer and actress. Her great-grandfather founded the Hilton Hotels. She is an heiress (meaning she will receive part of the Hilton Hotel fortune which her family runs). Right now she lives in the city of Los Angeles, which is in the state of California. She has a little dog named Tinkerbell, who is a small type of Chihuahuha.

Hilton has been in the media for various reasons. She has become well known for the bad behaviour she sometimes shows in public. Another reason for her fame is that a home-made sex video (with her former boyfriend, Rick Solomon) leaked onto the Internet in 2003. Hilton and her friend Nicole Richie were the stars of the reality show "The Simple Life" for five seasons.

Paris Hilton was born in New York City. Paris is the oldest of four children. Her father is Richard and her mother is Kathy. She has a sister named Nicky who is three years younger than she is, and younger brothers, Conrad and Barron. Her father is German and Norwegian and her mother is Italian and Irish.

Paris Hilton lived in the Waldorf-Astoria area of Manhattan, which is part of New York City. She also lived in Beverly Hills, which is part of Los Angeles, and the Hamptons, which is on Long Island in New York. As a child she was good friends with Nicole Richie and Kim Kardashian. Her other childhood best friend is Nicky Hilton, her sister, who she spent a lot of time with and she still does. She went to her first year of high school at the Marywood-Palm Valley School in Rancho Mirage, California. Then she went to the Dwight School in New York for her second and third years of high school. A lot of people know that she went to school there with famous pop singer Lady Gaga. She then had to move to the Canterbury Boarding School, in New Milford, Connecticut. Hilton played ice hockey there. She was forced to stop going to the school in the year 1999 because she did not follow the school rules.

When Paris Hilton was a child she began modeling, most often at charity events. When she was 19, she joined with Donald Trump's modeling agency, T Management. Hilton has also worked with Ford Models in New York, Models 1 Agency in London, Nous Model Management in Los Angeles, and Premier Model Management in London. Her picture is in many advertisements, and some of them are Iceberg Vodka, GUESS, Tommy Hilfiger, Christian Dior, and Marciano. In 2001, people started looking at her as a socialite, and everyone called her "New York's leading 'It Girl'" (a girl who is good at knowing what clothes are stylish to wear and knows the latest gossip). 

Paris Hilton has appeared in a few movies. Her biggest role was in a scary movie called "The House of Wax". She also played small roles, called cameo roles, in the movies "Zoolander", "Wonderland", and "The Cat In The Hat". She played supporting roles in "Nine Lives, Raising Helen", and "The Hillzu". She was the hottie in the 2008 movie "The Hottie and the Naughty". More recently, Hilton plays Amber Sweet, the surgery- and painkiller-addicted daughter of a biotech in the goth/rock musical "Repo! The Genetic Opera". Hilton is most famous in her film career for a sex tape she filmed with then-boyfriend Rick Solomon. The tape was soon leaked onto the internet and became very famous. It features Hilton performing oral sex on Solomon and copulating with him and features some night-vision camera.

Paris Hilton is known for television shows the "Simple Life" and "The Simple Life 2". She did the show with her friend Nicole Richie. It was broadcasted on FOX TV until 2004 and was then picked up by E! Network for two more seasons before cancellation in 2006. Hilton has also played guest roles, in episodes of The O.C., The George Lopez Show, Las Vegas, American Dreams, Dogg After Dark, and Veronica Mars. Also, she was in a few music videos, for example "It Girl" by John Oates and "Just Lose It" by Eminem. In April 2008, she guest starred on the My Name is Earl episode "I Won't Die with a Little Help from My Friends". Another famous show she is on right now is "Paris Hilton's My New BFF". On this show girls try to become Paris's new best friend.

Paris made her own album which is called "Paris". They include the songs "Screwed", and "Stars are Blind", which was a hit in 17 different countries.

In early 2004, Paris Hilton started selling a book about herself, "Confessions of an Heiress: A Tongue-in-Chic Peek Behind the Pose", and was mostly written by Merle Ginsberg. The book has hundreds of photographs of her and contains her advice on life as an heiress. Hilton reportedly received a $100,000 advance payment for this book. Some in the media thought the writing was not that good, and the book was made fun of by Robert Mundell on The Late Show with David Letterman. The book became a New York Times bestseller. Hilton then made a designer diary, also mostly made by Merle Ginsberg, called "Your Heiress Diary: Confess It All to Me".


</doc>
<doc id="58287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58287" title="Amun">
Amun

In Egyptian mythology, Amun was a very powerful god. He was often combined with Ra to form the god Amun-Ra. At one point in Egyptian history, he was called the "King of the Gods".

Amun (also spelled Amon, Amoun, Amen, and rarely Imen, Greek Αμμον Ammon, and Άμμον Hammon, "Egyptian" Yamanu) was the name of a deity, in Egyptian mythology, who became one of the most important deities in Ancient Egypt.

Amun's name is first recorded as "imn". That means "The hidden (one)". Because vowels were not written in Egyptian hieroglyphics, Egyptologists have come to the result that the name must have been pronounced (yah-maa-nuh) originally. The name survives into the Coptic language as "Amoun".

Amun was shown in human form, seated on a throne, wearing on his head a plain deep circlet from which rise two straight parallel plumes, maybe meant as the tail feathers of a bird. That would remind of his earlier status as a wind god. 

When Amun had become more important than Menthu, the local war god of Thebes, Menthu was called the son of Amun. However, as Mut was infertile, it was believed that she, and thus Amun, had adopted Menthu instead. 



 Amun was also known as the sun god. He is to be believed to have appeared and sneezed making more gods and his tears became people.

</doc>
<doc id="58289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58289" title="Aten">
Aten

Aten (also known as Amenhotep IV) was a form of the ancient Egyptian god of the sun, Ra. When Akhenaten was pharaoh, Aten was made king of the gods. He was pictured as a sun with rays that ended in hands.



</doc>
<doc id="58291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58291" title="Clam">
Clam

A clam is a type of shellfish. Clams can be found in saltwater and freshwater. Clams eat plankton, and are eaten by small sharks and squid. Clams can be eaten by people. They may be found on menus in restaurants that serve seafood. Clams are a fairly common form of bivalve, therefore making it part of the phylum mollusca. There are many clams in the ocean, but some can also be found in some lakes, streams, and rivers.

Clams have a burrowing foot that they use to dig down into the sand or mud to hide. If you go to the beach and see little holes that appear in the sand each times the waves go away, it is probable that clams made them. Scientists classify clams by how far down they dig and what kind of surface they dig into. Some burrow less than an inch under the sand, while others dig several inches below the surface.

The shell has 3 layers. The top one is called mother-of-pearl because it is a coating of pearl material. 

A living freshwater clam can work like a filter in fish tanks to keep the water clean.


</doc>
<doc id="58294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58294" title="Bes">
Bes

Bes was the ancient Egyptian god of protection of pregnant women, newborn babies and the family. He was a dwarf wearing a lion's skin. Bes does not look like he is Egyptian. He is like gods found in other parts of Africa.

To scare away demons during birth, Bes would dance around the room, shaking his rattle and yelling to scare away demons that might put a curse on the child. After the child was born, Bes would stay by him/her. When a baby laughed or smiled for no reason, Egyptians believed that Bes was somewhere in the room making funny faces.

His name appears to be connected to a Nubian word for "cat", "besa", which literally means "protector". Egyptians kept cats in order to attack snakes, and creatures that might ruin crop stores, such as mice, and so Bes was naturally singled out as worthy of worship in Egypt.

Images of the god were kept in homes to protect from evil and so he was shown quite differently from the other gods. Normally gods were shown in profile, but instead Bes appeared in portrait, and sometimes in a soldier's tunic, so as to appear ready to launch an attack on any approaching evil.

In the New Kingdom, tattoos of Bes could be found on the thighs of dancers, musicians and servant girls.

Like many Egyptian gods, the worship of Bes was exported overseas, and he was popular with the Phoenicians and the (ancient) Cypriots.
Bes, the family god, protected children from the dangers of snakes and scorpions. Like the hippopotamus god Taweret, Bes was the protector of women in childbirth. The Egyptians put a statue in their room or a carving over their bed to protect them from bad dreams. He brought good luck and good health to all that honored him. This household deity was also the god of music, dance and pleasure.

Bes was shown in full-face, unlike the other gods who were drawn in profile. This bandy-legged, large bellied dwarf wore an animal pelt and feathered headdress. He brandished a weapon or played a musical instrument while hopping about. Bes’ tail and lion’s main stood out from his dwarfish features. With his tongue sticking out or teeth bared, this god had a place in every home.

Bes started out as multiple demons, which morphed to form a rearing lion as his first combined form. His power increased from the Old Kingdom to the New Kingdom. He started out as the protector of the pharaoh but shifted to being worshiped by civilians. In the New Kingdom, the female form, Beset developed from Bes. Items with his depiction were common in a very broad field, which included Sub-Sahara Africa, modern Turkey, Cyprus, Syria and Assyria. This implies that Bes was highly popular in the Middle East. The fact that Bes was depicted full-face suggests he originated from Africa.



</doc>
<doc id="58295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58295" title="Hokkaido Wolf">
Hokkaido Wolf

The Hokkaido wolf "(Canis lupus hattai)" is a subspecies of Gray Wolf. Scientists believe it became extinct in 1889. There are people who said to have seen some Hokkaido wolves after that year, but there is no proof that they actually did.

In the Meiji Restoration in Japan, Japanese farmers wanted to have American-style ranches for raising livestock. A US farmer named Edwin Dun started to import livestock to Japan. When the wolves began attacking the livestock, farmers started to kill them, using poison.



</doc>
<doc id="58298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58298" title="Hornet">
Hornet

Hornets are the largest of the social wasps. They can reach up to 55mm (5.5 cm, 2.2in) in length. The "true hornets" make up the genus Vespa. True hornets can be distinguished from other vespines by the form of their head. Hornets live in Europe, Asia, Africa, and The Americas. They live in warm and wet forests, and in desert climates. They do not occur in climates where it is cold all year round.

In spring, a queen will found a new "nest" (or "hive"). The queen will start building a basic nest. In the built space she will lay eggs. These hatch, and become larvae. The queen will feed the first larvae, until they make a cocoon. After transforming, they will become the first "workers". These will do most of the work. The workers will build a hierarchy amongst themselves.

If the space where the nest is built becomes too small, the colony will move to another spot. 

In autumn young queens will hatch. Young males will hatch from unfertilized eggs. These males are called drones. The young queens will build a cocoon to spend the winter, once they have been fertilized. All the other animals will die with the first frost.

Hornets and yellowjackets are good for gardens. This is because their prey is mostly made of insects which are considered pests. They also feed on bees, but their colonies only last for a year, they die in winter. A medium-sized colony, made of 300-400 animals will need about 500g (half a kilo, 1 lb) of food per day, during the high season, that is in the summer months. Animals hunted include flies, wasps, bees, locusts, beetles, caterpillars, dragonflies and spiders.

Hornets are often confused with yellowjackets. Yellowjackets are smaller, and their coloring is different. They are bright yellow and black. 

Yellowjackets are attracted to the "sweetness" of human foods, especially in autumn. Hornets feed on live insects, this sweetness does not attract them.

Some other large wasps are sometimes referred to as "hornets". This is particularly true for the bald-faced hornet in North America. The bald-faced hornet is mostly black and white in coloring. This is very different from the black-and-yellow coloring of other wasps. It is set apart by its black and ivory coloration. The name "hornet" is used for this and related species mainly because of their habit to make aerial nests (similar to the true hornets') rather than the nests underground the wasps use. Another example is the Australian hornet, which is actually a species of potter wasp.

There are some animals that have changed their appearance to look like hornets. In these case, looking like a hornet is a defense for the animal, because it will be attacked less often. These animals include the Lunar Hornet Moth, the Hornet Moth, the Hornet Mimic Hoverfly. This behaviour is called mimicry

There is a kind of beetle, called "Velleius dilatatus" that lives with honet nests. It lives from the leftovers of the hornets' food, and from dead hornets. It finds hornet nests with its very good sense of smell.

Flying hornets which are hunting and which are not close to their nest will usually not sting, unless they feel threatened. They should not be squeezed; making a breeze at them can also irritate them and make them feel threatened.

Hornets hunt when there is only little light available - humans will call it darkness. Like other insects they are attracted to light. If possible, the light should be extinguished for a short time. The hornets will then continue as usual. If it is not possible to put out the light, a glass jar can be used to catch the hornet. With a paper under the glass the hornet can then be transported to a safe place away from that light where it can be released.

Hornets will defend their nest, or hive. Depending on the species of hornet, they will do this in a radius of between 2m and 6m. Concussions within that radius should be avoided. If they are disturbed often, they will make this radius bigger. There are specially trained people who can move hornet nests - note that in many parts of Europe, the hornet is an endangered species; killing a hornet, destroying or disturbing a hornet nest can lead to a fine. 

Hornets have a stinger. They use this to kill prey, and to defend themselves. 
Hornet stings can be very painful, but they are not more dangerous than the stings of other wasps or bees. With every sting, there is the danger of an allergic reaction and of a shock after this reaction. Also, stings in the area of the mouth can make breathing difficult, or impossible. 

People who are allergic develop an Anaphylaxis - an allergic reaction. This can be fatal, if it is not treated immediately with Epinephrine (also known as Adrenaline). 

Hornets can alert the whole nest. This means that all workers there will defend it. This can lead to a dangerous situation. One sting of a hornet is not dangerous; with 200 to 250 of them, the situation is different.



</doc>
<doc id="58300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58300" title="Geb">
Geb

In Egyptian mythology, Geb was the god of the earth. Geb was the husband and brother of the sky goddess Nut and the father of Osiris, Isis, Nephthys and Seth. When Seth and Horus (Osiris' son) fought to become the king of Egypt, Geb made Horus the ruler of the living. Geb's parents are Tefnut and Shu. 
The ancient Egyptians believed that earthquakes were Geb's laughter.

The animals of Geb are a snake and a goose (a goose is sometimes depicted on Geb's head). Geb is sometimes equivalent to Greek titan Kronos. Geb's name means "weak one" or "lame one". Geb is also god of vegetation, and his other names are Seb, Keb, Kebb, and Sebb.

Geb hatched his egg, which would become the sun. Geb married Nut and had four children. Their names were Osiris, Isis, Nephtys, and Set. Osiris and Isis married and eventually Set and Nephtys married. One night Set measured Osiris to make a tomb for him. They made a huge festival and there were many presents. The last one was a little box. A couple of villagers tried to fit into the box but it didn’t work. Then Osiris came and it fit perfectly! But then Set shut it with Osiris inside and put molten lead over it so Osiris couldn’t breathe. When Isis found out, she was very sad and was crying. She looked at Osiris and then closed the lid gently. And, when Set found the tomb he cut him into pieces. Isis put Osiris back together so he looked like a person again. Then Isis had her first child named Horus. When Horus found out that his dad died, he tried to kill Set and Set tried to kill Horus. Eventually Set got a huge wound that was filled with blood. When that happened, Geb said that Horus could take over Osiris’ place. 

In Geb’s temple, priests fed him everyday like many of the other gods. When gifts were given, people were allowed to go to the gate or the forecourt. The priests would collect gifts that the ordinary Egyptians gave to the gods. Priests would pray to honor Geb for the people who came to the temple. The temple was made out of big stone columns that supported a great big hall. There were also very big gates that opened up to the Great Hall. The rooms or chambers were lit by candles, and incense would make the rooms smell nice and clean the air in the temple. The chambers gradually decreased in size as priests went in and created a mysterious feeling. The priests then found the chapel in the shrine, which contained the Naos (a naos is a small shrine) which had the statue of Geb.

Geb’s symbol was a goose and his skin was sometimes green, representing the Nile River or black representing rich soil for vegetation. Geb was depicted as a man wearing the crown of the North and other times he wore the crown of the South of Egypt. Geb also sometimes wore a white crown or a goose on his head representing the earth. Geb held a staff in his left hand and in his right hand he usually held an ankh, which is the hieroglyph that meant life. Not only did Geb wear a goose on top of his head but sometimes his would be covered by a goose head. 

Geb was so powerful that when he laughed, he made earthquakes start. That is why he was named the Great Cackler. Just like other gods, Geb was very strong and could live a long time. To show his powers for making life from the earth, Geb is sometimes drawn with flowers coming out of his elbow. He had many names which were Geb, Seb, Sebb, Keb, and Kebb. 
Geb was also a Greek god named Kronos. Although he was not as famous as his daughters and brothers, he still had an important job.



</doc>
<doc id="58301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58301" title="Sting (disambiguation)">
Sting (disambiguation)

A sting is an injury which a person receives from a stinger. Animals such as bees have them. They tend to hurt a lot and have several different cures (e.g. for stinging nettles stings, rub a dock leaf on it).

Sting may also refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="58306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58306" title="Type O Negative">
Type O Negative

Type O Negative is a doom metal band from Brooklyn, New York. The band was started in 1990.






</doc>
<doc id="58307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58307" title="Doom metal">
Doom metal

Doom metal is a form of heavy metal. The music sounds heavy and it is slower than other metal genres. Lyrics play a very important part in this genre. They are normally about sad subjects like pain, death and pessimism.



</doc>
<doc id="58318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58318" title="Candlemass">
Candlemass

Candlemass is a doom metal band from Sweden. The band was formed in 1984 in Stockholm.



</doc>
<doc id="58322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58322" title="Split album">
Split album

A split album is a music album which includes tracks by two or three separate artists.


</doc>
<doc id="58333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58333" title="Brown dwarf">
Brown dwarf

A brown dwarf is a term for an object in space that has the same composition as a star but that is not massive enough to attain hydrogen fusion, or the combining of hydrogen atoms into helium atoms. This is what makes stars glow. Brown dwarfs are not massive enough to do this, so they are not true stars. 


</doc>
<doc id="58334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58334" title="Dividend">
Dividend

Dividends are payments made by a company to its shareholders. When a company earns more money than it spends, the extra money can either be spent on making the company better or it can be given to the people who own stock in the company as a dividend.


</doc>
<doc id="58335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58335" title="20th Century Fox Television">
20th Century Fox Television



</doc>
<doc id="58337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58337" title="Camille Dalmais">
Camille Dalmais

Camille Dalmais (born 1978 Paris, France) is a French singer. She is famous in France and her first album was made in 2002.


</doc>
<doc id="58341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58341" title="Age of Mythology: The Titans">
Age of Mythology: The Titans

Age of Mythology: The Titans is a 2003 computer game made by Ensemble Studios. It is an expansion pack to "Age of Mythology".


</doc>
<doc id="58348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58348" title="Germanicus">
Germanicus

Germanicus Caesar (May 24, 15 BC – October 10, 19 AD) was a Roman general. He was the son of the general Nero Claudius Drusus, and nephew of Emperor Tiberius.


</doc>
<doc id="58353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58353" title="PS10 solar power tower">
PS10 solar power tower

Planta Solar 10 (PS10 ) is a solar power plant located in Sanlucar la Mayor, Spain. 

The plant is made up of a tower located in the center of a large field covered in many mirrors. Each of the 624 moveable mirrors has an area of 120 m (1290 ft). The mirrors reflect the light from the Sun to the top of the tower. The heat warms water within pipes in the central tower turning it into steam. The steam drives turbines which, at peak, put out 11 MW of electricity . 

The planet is really good for providing electricity during the hottest parts of the day when air conditioning demand is the highest.



</doc>
<doc id="58356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58356" title="Feyenoord">
Feyenoord

Feyenoord Rotterdam is a Dutch football team from Rotterdam. They play their home matches in the Feijenoord Stadium, also called De Kuip. Feyenoord is created on July 19,1908. Their home uniform is a red and white shirt with black shorts and black socks. Their away colours for the 2007/2008 season are a black, red and white shirt with black shorts and black socks. They play in the Eredivisie, which is the highest football competition in The Netherlands. Everytime Feyenoord scores at home, the song "I Will Survive" by The Hermes House band is played.




</doc>
<doc id="58357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58357" title="Headquarters">
Headquarters

Headquarters is a name given to the main building of an organization where most of its functions are done. All large companies have headquarter which control the business. A large non-governmental organization also has a headquarter from where its activities are controlled. The term is also used regarding military organizations.


</doc>
<doc id="58361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58361" title="Estates Theatre">
Estates Theatre

The Estates Theatre or Stavovské divadlo in Prague is one of the oldest and most beautiful opera houses in Europe.

The Estates Theatre became part of the National Theatre in 1948. People from three different groups perform opera, ballet, and drama there. The same people also perform at the National Theatre (Národní divadlo), and the Theatre Kolowrat (Divadlo Kolowrat).

The Estates Theatre was built during the late 18th century. At first it was known as Count Nostitz’s Theatre. The theatre opened in 1783 with a performance of the tragedy "Emilia Galotti" by the German playwright Gotthold Lessing. It was built in the Neoclassical style. Today it is one of the very few theatres that have hardly changed since it was built.

Although the building is almost the same it always was, the organisation of the Estates Theatre has changed several times in its history. In 1798 it was called the Estates Theatre when it was bought by the Czech Estates. When the Provisional Theatre opened in 1862 the Estates Theatre started to put on German plays and the name was changed to the Royal Provincial German Theatre. From 1920 and 1948 it got its name (Estates Theatre) back again. In 1948 the organization became part of the National Theatre and was called Tyl Theatre (after dramatist J.K. Tyl). In 1990, after some restoration, it became known again as the Estates Theatre.

Many of the greatest artists worked or had their music or plays performed in the Estates Theatre. In 1787 the first performance took place of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's opera "Don Giovanni". Mozart's opera "La Clemenza di Tito" was also staged there for the first time in celebration of the coronation of Emperor Leopold II. Other famous people who conducted there were Carl Maria von Weber and Gustav Mahler. 

Czech plays were often performed there. This made people interested in performing in Czech and so, in 1848, the National Theatre was built.

Today the Estates Theatre is still famous for dramas, ballets and operas. The opera company especially perform the operas of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The movie about Mozart which was called Amadeus was filmed in the Estates Theatre.



</doc>
<doc id="58363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58363" title="Category:Theatres">
Category:Theatres


</doc>
<doc id="58367" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58367" title="National Theatre, Prague">
National Theatre, Prague

The Národní Divadlo or the National Theatre in Prague is a very famous building which has been very important for more than 150 years for the culture of Czech history.

In the middle of the 19th century there were a lot of political changes in Europe. Prague had been part of the Austrian Empire. The official language was German. Bohemia (which included Prague) and Moravia now form the area of the Czech Republic. In the 19th century the Czechs in these areas wanted to be able to put on plays and operas in the Czech language. The National Theatre was built at a time when this was starting to become possible.

The National Theatre was built because the Czech people wanted their own national identity. The first stone was laid on May 16, 1868. It was opened on June 11 1881 to honour the visit of Crown Prince Rudolf of Austria. Another 11 performances were given after that. Then the theatre was closed down to finish the building. While people were working to finish it a fire broke out on August 12 1881 which destroyed most of it. However, a lot of money was found and it was built again and opened on November 18 1883 with a performance of Smetana’s opera "Libuše" which he had composed for this occasion. The story of the opera is based on a mythological story about how Prague began.

It was an excellent theatre, and it was not until 1977 that any more re-building was necessary. Then it was closed for six years, and opened again in time for the 100th anniversary of its opening: on November 18 1983. On that day again there was a performance of Smetana’s "Libuše".

Today the National Theatre has three ensembles (groups of people): opera, ballet and drama. These ensembles all perform in the National Theatre, the Estates Theatre and the Theatre Kolowrat. They put on a lot of Czech plays and operas, but also productions from other parts of the world.


</doc>
<doc id="58368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58368" title="Rectification">
Rectification

Rectification is the process of converting alternating current (AC) to direct current (DC). This is usually done with diodes or premade systems with micro diodes.


</doc>
<doc id="58369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58369" title="Drone">
Drone

Drone can mean:

In nature:

In vehicles:

In fiction:

In music:

See also;


</doc>
<doc id="58370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58370" title="Drone (music)">
Drone (music)

In music, a drone is a note which sounds all the time while a piece of music is played. Some folk instruments always make a drone when they are played: bagpipes and hurdy gurdies in European culture, sitars in Indian music, and many other instruments in Asian and African music. Sometimes more than one drone is heard (often two notes which are a fifth apart).

Music with drones has to have simple harmonies because it is not possible to modulate to different keys. Other things can make up for this, for example, Scottish bagpipe music has lots of little ornamental notes to make it interesting.

Some Western Composers liked to use a drone (especially one in fifths) to make it sound like bagpipes or other folk instruments. Bach, François Couperin and other Baroque composers often called such pieces "Musette" (the French for "bagpipes"). Sometimes they did this in orchestral music: Haydn used a drone in the last part of his Symphony No. 104 to accompany a folk tune.



</doc>
<doc id="58372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58372" title="Pedal point">
Pedal point

A pedal point (or pedal note) is a note which keeps sounding for several bars, usually in the bass (the lowest notes). They are often used towards the end of a piece of music to help to drive the music to a climax. They are called "pedal" notes because they are often heard in organ music where the player puts one of his feet on a pedal note and holds it there. 

Pedal points are usually on either the tonic (main key note) (tonic pedal) or the dominant (5th note of the scale) (dominant pedal) tones. 

A good example of a dominant pedal can be seen in the "Prelude in C major" from Book I of the "Welltempered Clavier" by Bach.

An example of a tonic pedal can be seen in the third movement of Brahms's "German Requiem", where the double basses play continuous D's in the last section. Because this lasts for the whole section some people might prefer to call this a drone.

A double pedal is two pedal tones played at the same time.

An inverted pedal is a pedal that is not in the bass. It is often in the highest part. 


</doc>
<doc id="58374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58374" title="Euclidean geometry">
Euclidean geometry

Euclidean geometry is a system in mathematics. People think Euclid was the first person who described it; therefore, it bears his name. He first described it in his textbook Elements. The book was the first systematic discussion of geometry as it was known at the time. In the book, Euclid first assumes a few axioms. These form the base for later work. They are intuitively clear. Starting from those axioms, other theorems can be proven. 

In the 19th century other forms of geometry were found. These are non-Euclidean. Carl Friedrich Gauss, János Bolyai, and Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky were some people that developed such geometries. Very often, these do not use the parallel postulate, but the other four axioms. 

Euclid makes the following assumptions. These are axioms, and need not be proved.

Euclidean geometry is a first-order theory. With it, statements like "For all triangles..." can be made, and be proven. Statements like "For all sets of triangles..." are outside the scope of the theory.


</doc>
<doc id="58375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58375" title="János Bolyai">
János Bolyai

János Bolyai (December 15, 1802 – January 27, 1860) was a Hungarian mathematician, known for his work in non-Euclidean geometry.


</doc>
<doc id="58377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58377" title="Diana (mythology)">
Diana (mythology)

In Roman mythology, Diana was the goddess of hunting, and in later times, the moon and chastity. Cypress trees were sacred to her. She was the daughter of Jupiter and the Titan Latona (or Leto). In Greek mythology, Diana was called Artemis. She is also associated with fertility and nature. Diana is also a female name.

According to mythology, Diana was born with her twin brother Apollo on the island of Delos.Apollo was her only real brother but she had many half brothers and sisters from her Father.They were Vulcan,Minerva,Apollo,Mercury,Bacchus,Mars and Proserpine. Diana made up a group of three with two other Roman deities: Egeria the water nymph, her servant and midwife helper; and Virbius, the god of the woods.



</doc>
<doc id="58380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58380" title="Thoth">
Thoth

In Egyptian mythology, Thoth was the deity of scribes. He is thought to be one of the most important deities of the Egyptian religion and was often shown with the head of an ibis. His feminine counterparts were Ma'at and Seshat. Thoth was said to be born from the skull of Seth also said to be born from the heart of Ra. 

Thoth was considered the heart and tongue of Ra. He was also the one who translated Ra's will into speech. 

The main shrine of Thoth was at Khemennu. It was there that he was the head of the local company of deities. He also had shrines in Abydos, Hesert, Urit, Per-Ab, Rekhui, Ta-ur, Sep, Hat, Pselket, Talmsis, Antcha-Mutet, Bah, Amen-heri-ab, and Ta-kens.
Thoth was mostly prayed to in the early dynasty. He was also prayed through the five days of celebration. They would sing hymns and chant spells for Thoth. There were many celebrations like "The feast of Thoth" in the year. He was a major god for the early dynasty.

Thoth played very important roles in Egyptian myths. He was said to have resurrected Osiris after he was slain by Seth and also later resurrected his son, Horus. He was also credited for creating 365 days instead of 360. One myth explains how Ra bans Nut from having children on any day of the year. Thoth then goes to the moon god, Khonsu, and gambles five days out of him, therefore giving five days when Nut can have children. He also was sometimes said to take the place of the Primeval Goose and be the creator of the world and all other gods. 
Thoth had one direct relation to Ma'at that people know of, although some myths say he was the son of Ra. His feminine counterpart was a goddess named Seshat. She was also sometimes credited to be the inventor of hieroglyphs, while Thoth taught them. She was also said to be Thoth’s wife or daughter.
Ma'at also played a big role next to Thoth. He was there at the weighing of the heart, noting, while Ma’at weighed the heart. They both stood on either side of Ra’s boat and also he was sometimes said to be Ma’at’s husband.

Thoth was a unique god. He is said to have two forms: an Ibis headed human and a squatting dog headed baboon. He held a stylus and a pallet, and sometimes the symbol of life.
Thoth had many titles and a lot of roles. He was often called “Three times Great, Great”. He was mediator, messenger, scribe and teacher. Some of his titles included;
‘Scribe of Ma’at in the company of the gods’
‘Lord of Ma’at’
‘Lord of divine words’
‘Judge of the two combatant gods’
‘Twice great’ or ‘Thrice Great’
These numerous titles show that Thoth had a very significant importance to ancient Egyptian mythology. He had his high point of worship in the Old Kingdom.
When the Greeks conquered Egypt, they related Thoth with Hermes, their messenger god. Thoth’s center city was Khemenu, (where he has his chief temple) which the Greeks changed to Hermopolis; city of Hermes. Today ancient temples and ruins worshiping Thoth are there and what used to be Khemenu is now el-Eshmunein.





</doc>
<doc id="58381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58381" title="List of Norse gods and goddesses">
List of Norse gods and goddesses

This is a list of Norse gods and goddesses that are in Norse mythology.
Divided between the "Æsir" and the "Vanir", and sometimes including the "jötnar" (giants), the dividing line between these groups is less than clear. However, it is usually accepted that the Æsir (including Óðinn, Þórr and Týr) were warrior gods, while the Vanir (mainly Njörðr, Freyja and Freyr) were fertility gods. Various other groups of beings, including elves, dwarves and jötnar were probably minor gods, and might have had small cults and sacred places devoted to them.



Some characters sometimes presented as Norse deities do not occur in the ancient sources.

The following pseudo-deities are presented in Encyclopedia Mythica as Norse.


</doc>
<doc id="58382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58382" title="List of Egyptian gods and goddesses">
List of Egyptian gods and goddesses

This is a list of Egyptian gods and goddesses from Egyptian mythology. The ancient Egyptians worshipped many gods at different times and in different places. Some gods changed in importance over time.



</doc>
<doc id="58397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58397" title="Nut (goddess)">
Nut (goddess)

In Egyptian mythology, Nut was the goddess of the sky. Her body made a protective layer over the Earth. Nut was the sister and wife of Geb, and the mother of Isis, Osiris, Nephthys, Horus and Seth. 

The ancient Egyptians believed that Nut swallowed the sun-god, Ra, every night and gave birth to him every morning

Although Nut was pictured in many temples and tombs, as well as on ceilings, she had no building of her own like other major gods and goddesses. She was not well observed in popular places.

Nut was the goddess of the sky, but had many other purposes as well. She had three other names: Nuit, Newet, and Nueth. Nut was known as the mother of all gods, including Ra (her grandfather and husband) because she swallowed him up every night and gave birth to him again in the morning. She was also the mother of heavenly bodies, whose laughter was thunder and tears were rain. She often carried the sun across the sky. She played a part in funeral beliefs and was sometimes drawn on the tops of sarcophagi. Nut was one of the nine major gods. She was the personification of the sky and the heavens. Egyptians called her "the mother of the sky". Nut was one of the oldest deities among history.

As the sky goddess, Nut was shown arching over Geb, her fingertips near his head and her toes by his feet. She was commonly pictured dark blue and wore no robes, although some Egyptians believed that Nut wore a rainbow-colored robe, with stars all over her body. Big paintings of her were often found on ceilings of tomb chambers. She can be seen with small vulture wings or a vase on her head. She was often shown as a big cow, when carrying the sun across the sky. The cow was a very motherly figure.

Nut was a very beautiful and kind goddess. She was loving and caring, so she fell in love with Thoth, the god of knowledge, and Geb, the god of the Earth. She was a very motherly figure, which then again shows how generous and kind she was. Nut was a very strong and independent goddess, for she would not marry just any person she was forced to; she did what she wanted.

Nut had a strong relationship with Geb, her twin brother and Thoth the god of scribes and wisdom. She was the goddess of the sky and Geb was the god of the earth. In the morning they were separated but at night they came together, which created the darkness. This is a story the ancient Egyptians used to explain their 365-day calendar. Nut loved Geb and Thoth but she was married to Ra. When Ra found out about her secret loves he was furious. He told Nut that she could not have any children in the 360 days of the year. This saddened her so she went to Thoth for help. He gambled with Khonsu the moon god to create 5 more days so she and Geb had five children: Osiris was first, Horus was second, Seth was third, Isis was fourth and Nephthys was the fifth. These days were called the Demon Days. She and Ra also had one daughter named Sekmet the lion goddess, who had a flip personality called Hathor the goddess of love and peace.

The ancient Egyptians had three calendars, but the Agricultural one was the one that was used in everyday life. It was made up of three seasons, each containing four months. The seasons were Akhet, (the inundation) Peret (when the water retreated) and Shemu (harvest season). Nut liked Geb but Ra did not like that so he told Shu their father the air god to separate them. Then Ra put a curse on Nut so she could not have babies on any of the three-hundred sixty days of the year. Thoth wanted to let Nut be able to have babies so he challenged Khonsu the moon god to a game of Senet. If he won he would be able to add five days of the year if he lost he would be killed. Obviously Thoth won and got five more days for the year. On the first day Nut had Osiris to replace Ra, but Set later deceived him and Osiris became god of the underworld, on the second day she had Horus the war god, on the third day she had Set the god of storms and evil, on the forth day she had Isis the goddess of magic, on the fifth day she had Nephthys the river goddess, After a long time the Egyptians realized the calendar was off because they did not have the quarter day at the end, like we do by having leap year. The calendar said it was flood season but the flood did not come until later. The ancient Egyptians noticed the star Sirius would rise right before the flood. They used this as the beginning of the year and the beginning of the flood.

 


</doc>
<doc id="58411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58411" title="Dennis Kearney">
Dennis Kearney

Dennis Kearney (1847–1907) was an American politician who was himself an immigrant from Ireland. He is known for being racist towards Chinese people. His fame comes from his strong support of the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882.


</doc>
<doc id="58412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58412" title="Cross of Gold speech">
Cross of Gold speech

The Cross of Gold speech was a famous speech at the 1896 Democratic National Convention by William Jennings Bryan. He wanted silver and not gold to be America's bullion standard. It was his goal to create inflation to help those in debt. The end of the speech gives it its name when he says;


</doc>
<doc id="58423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58423" title="Paolo Uccello">
Paolo Uccello

Paolo Uccello, (c. 1396 – 1475), was a painter from Florence in Italy, during the time known as the Early Renaissance. He is famous as one of the first painters of the Italian Renaissance to use perspective in his pictures.

Most of what we know about Uccello comes from Giorgio Vasari, who wrote Paolo's biography about 75 years after Uccello died. Uccello was born about the year 1396, in the city of Florence. Vasari says that he was called "Uccello", which means "Bird", because he loved all animals and would often paint them, but he loved birds best of all. When he was about 11 years old, he was sent to be trained in the workshop of one of the most famous artists in Florence, a young man called Lorenzo Ghiberti.

Ghiberti was famous because he had won an important competition to make a huge set of beautiful doors for the oldest church in the city. The doors took 27 years to make, so in that time, lots of different artists helped in the making of them, and lots of talented young people like Uccello were trained in the workshop. Uccello worked there for 8 years.

While Uccello was still quite young he got an important job to do, all by himself. He was asked to paint some frescoes showing stories of different saints for the monks of a Church of San Miniato, on a mountain above Florence. It was a large beautiful church, but the monks at the monastery did not eat expensive food. They only ate bread and cheese. So, Uccello also ate nothing but bread and cheese for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, sometimes made into soup. After a few weeks he thought he was turning into a cheese! So he ran away from the monastery and went back to Florence, leaving his work unfinished. 

One day when two of the monks were walking in the street, they chased Uccello and caught him. They asked him why he had never finished the job. Uccello told them that it was because of the cheese. The monks laughed and promised that he would get better food, if only he would promise to come back and finish what he had started. He came back to finish the frescoes, called "The Lives of the Church Fathers". They are painted in dull colours as a protest against the simple food. Vasari, who tells this story, says that Uccello never ate cheese again in his life.

Today, these frescoes at San Miniato have been badly damaged by water. Most of them have fallen off the wall or have faded. However, one beautiful angel remains quite clear. 

In 1425 Uccello went to the city of Venice where he lived and worked for several years.

In 1436 he was back in Florence to do some important jobs for Florence Cathedral. The first was to paint a large fresco in honour of an English Knight, Sir John Hawkwood.

The painting of Sir John is quite unusual. It is of Sir John on his war horse. Uccello has painted it to look like a statue of the soldier on his horse. He has used white and greenish-grey against a dark red-brown background. To add colour, Uccello has painted the horse's saddle and bridle bright red. The horse is standing on a painted "plinth" like the base of a statue and Sir John's name is written on the plinth, as if the statue was standing in the town square. And in large letters are words which translate as "The Work of Paolo Uccello".

The painting was very popular, and some years later, another soldier was remembered in the same way with a painting by the artist Andrea Castagno.

The second job that Uccello had at the Cathedral was to paint the clock. The clock has two faces, one that can be seen outside in the square and another which is on an inside wall of the cathedral. Uccello had to paint a clock face around the hand on the inside wall. (It's a 24 hour clock and it's only got one hand.) Uccello painted the round clockface into a square shape and put the head of a prophet in each corner. The prophets' faces are all very different but the thing that is the most clever about them is that Uccello painted bright light and dark shadows on their faces as if the light was coming from a real window which is high on the wall to the left side of the clock.

The other important job for the cathedral was to design two big round stained glass windows, each one 4.5 metres across. The cathedral had been built in the last century, but it had been left with a huge hole at the centre which needed a roof of some sort. An artist called Brunelleschi had come up with a brilliant plan for a dome, and the whole city was excited about getting it built. Workmen from every part of the town formed 8 gangs to build the 8 parts. As the dome grew, it had 8 large windows that needed glass. The best artists in Florence were asked to design them. Three of Uccello's designs were used but unfortunately one was smashed in 1828. The two that remain are "The Nativity" (The Birth of Jesus) and "The Resurrection" (Jesus rising from the dead).

By 1453, Uccello was married to Tomassa Malifici. In that year she gave birth to Donato who was named after the sculptor Donatello. In 1456 the couple had a daughter, Antonia, who later became a nun and a painter.

The paintings that are regarded as Uccello's masterpieces are frescoes of Noah's Ark and the Great Flood in the Church of Santa Maria Novella in Florence. Unfortunately, they are quite badly damaged and partly lost, but even so, it is possible to see what a clever artist Uccello was. There are two things remarkable about the pictures. Firstly, they are very realistic. The second is that they use perspective to give the impression that the viewer is looking into the scene.

As in the fresco of Sir John Hawkwood, Uccello does not use many colours. The pictures are painted in white, pale grey, blue grey and just a little black. The landscape is grey, the water is blue-grey, the people are white with grey shadows. But the paintings are made lively by all the bits of red. All the man-made things, like the Ark, the old doors, barrels, up-side-down tables and broken things that are floating on the flood water, are all painted in the same red colour. Some of the people are wearing big black and white hats that were popular in Florence. In the disaster of the flood, one man is floating in a barrel. Another man, seeing an old man standing on a little hill, has grabbed him round the ankles to pull himself up. Another man, with part of his great big fashionable hat slipped down around his neck, is thumping on the wall of the ark with a club. The wind is blowing, the rain is pouring down and twigs and branches are flying in the wind. It is a scene of terror.
<br clear=all>

One of the richest men in Florence was Cosimo Medici who liked to spend money on works of art. He asked Uccello to paint three large paintings on panels, each about 3 metres long, to decorate his palace. The subject was to be Three scenes from "the Battle of San Romano" in which the Florentine troops defeated the neighbouring town of Siena. In fact, it was not a very fierce battle. Modern soccer matches between Florence and Siena are probably more bloody. But it made three very good pictures which were later divided up between three important art galleries. The National Gallery, London has the left-hand scene of Niccolo Tolentino leading his troops on his magnificent rearing white charger and wearing, of course, a great big Florentine hat of red and gold "brocade". The Uffizi Gallery in Florence has the middle scene in which the leader of the enemy forces, Bernadino della Ciarda, has been struck by a lance and is falling off his horse backwards. The right-hand scene, which is in the Louvre in Paris, shows the brave Michelotto di Cotignola swinging his horse around to attack an opponent with his sword.

Even though, at first glance each battle scene looks quite chaotic, the paintings are very carefully organised. This is particularly noticeable in the way Uccello has arranged the lances that are held upright by the troops and the many weapons that are lying on the ground. They all serve the purpose of leading the viewers eye into the painting. They create perspective. And while the battle is raging in the "foreground", in the "background" are mountains, fields, hedges and woods. In them are farmers, hunters and animals. The difference in size between the figures in the "foreground" and the figures in the "background" create distance in the picture.

Uccello studied perspective all his life in a way that was quite obsessive. Sometimes he would not come out of his house for weeks. His friend Donatello, another respected artist, begged him to do more painting and less study. Uccello became very good at mathematical calculation of the perspective of buildings, but it was not until his old age that he could fully understand how to calculate the sizes of things like people in the distance. His last painting shows a hunting party, with a great forest of trees, people and dogs, all going away into the distance, from near to far.

In 1469 Paolo wrote on his tax assessment that he was too old to work any more and that his wife was ill. Giorgio Vasari, who, 100 years later, researched and wrote the lives of many painters, wrote that, unfortunately Paolo was badly offended by Donatello, who looked at his latest painting and told him, for a joke, to cover it up. Vasari said that Paolo was so hurt that refused to come out of his room but sat working at his drawings, and whenever his wife called him to come to bed he would answer "What a wonderful thing is perspective!"

He died on 10 November, 1475, leaving behind him his old wife and a daughter Antonia who was also very good at painting. Unfortunately, none of her pictures are known today.




</doc>
<doc id="58425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58425" title="Fallen Leaves">
Fallen Leaves

Fallen Leaves is a song by the Canadian music group, Billy Talent. It is the sixth track on the album "Billy Talent II" and is their third single to be released.


</doc>
<doc id="58428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58428" title="Sumer Is Icumen In">
Sumer Is Icumen In

"Sumer Is Icumen In" is a very old English song which can be sung as a round. It is the oldest example of a round that we know of. The composer is unknown. It was written down around the middle of the 13th century by a monk but we do not know whether that monk composed it, or whether it had been composed earlier. 

The title means "Summer has come in". The round can be sung in six parts. There are also two parts which can be repeated again and again (an ostinato) throughout the piece. The language is Middle English and is based on the dialect spoken in Wessex, England at the time.

This is the manuscript that the monk wrote:
To sing as a round, one singer (or group of singers) would begin at the beginning, a second singer would start at the beginning as the first got to the point marked with the red cross, then the third would join in when the second singer got to the red cross, and so on until all six were singing. The repeated pattern is marked "Pes". The instructions are written in Latin.
Here is the song in modern notation:

Here are the words with a modern English translation:


</doc>
<doc id="58431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58431" title="Carmen">
Carmen

Carmen is a French opera written in 1875 by Georges Bizet. The story is based on the story of the same title by Prosper Mérimée. 

Carmen is about a gypsy girl who works in a factory. She falls in love with a soldier called Don José, who loves her. However, he is already engaged to somebody else. Later, he leaves the girl he was engaged to and the army for Carmen. Running away together, they are happy for a while until Carmen decides she loves a bullfighter called Escamillo. She leaves Don José. One day when Carmen is watching a bullfight, Don José waits for her and then tries to make her come back. She refuses, so he stabs her to death. Horrified at what he has done, he goes to jail.




</doc>
<doc id="58433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58433" title="Category:Medieval music">
Category:Medieval music


</doc>
<doc id="58434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58434" title="Category:Street furniture">
Category:Street furniture


</doc>
<doc id="58435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58435" title="Category:Mathematical templates">
Category:Mathematical templates


</doc>
<doc id="58440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58440" title="Category:15 BC births">
Category:15 BC births


</doc>
<doc id="58441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58441" title="Category:15 BC">
Category:15 BC


</doc>
<doc id="58442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58442" title="Category:19 deaths">
Category:19 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58447" title="Kumquat">
Kumquat

The kumquats or cumquats are a group of small fruit-bearing trees. The edible fruit (which is also called kumquat) is similar to other "Citrus" but is smaller.

Kumquats are slow-growing, evergreen shrubs or small trees, from 2.5–4.5 m tall, with dense branches. Sometimes they have small thorns. The leaves are dark glossy green, and the flowers pure white, similar to citrus flowers.

Kumquats came from China (they are known in literature of the 12th century), and have long been cultivated there and in Japan. They were introduced to Europe in 1846 by Robert Fortune, who was collector for the "London Horticultural Society", and a short time later into North America. 

They are much hardier than citrus plants as oranges. The 'Nagami' kumquat needs a hot summer, ranging from 25 ºC(77ºF) to 38º C(100.4ºF), but can withstand frost down to about −10 °C(14ºF). It grows in the tea regions of China where the climate is too cold for other citrus fruits, even the Mikan (also known as the Satsuma) orange. 

The English name "kumquat" derives from the Cantonese pronunciation "gam1 gwat1" (given in Jyutping romanization). The alternate name , also pronounced "gam1 gwat1" in Cantonese ("gān jú" in Mandarin, literally "large tangerine orange") is now more commonly written by Cantonese speakers.

Names in other Asian languages include:



</doc>
<doc id="58452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58452" title="Teton Mountains">
Teton Mountains

The Teton Mountains are mountains on the border between Wyoming and Idaho in the United States of America. The are in a park called Teton National Park. It is south of Yellowstone National Park, a park known for its hot springs.


</doc>
<doc id="58460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58460" title="Baunach">
Baunach

Baunach is a town in the German state (bundesland) of Bavaria. It is located in the district of Bamberg in Upper Franconia. About 3,950 people live there (in year 2005).


</doc>
<doc id="58462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58462" title="Burgebrach">
Burgebrach

Burgebrach is a municipality in the district of Bamberg located in Upper Franconia, Bavaria, Germany. About 6,500 people live in Burgebrach. There are 27 villages in the municipality.


</doc>
<doc id="58476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58476" title="Ostinato">
Ostinato

In music, an ostinato is a short pattern of notes which is repeated many times. The word "ostinato" is related to the word "obstinate". It is like a musical idea which is being obstinate and will not go away. The plural can be either "ostinati" or "ostinatos".

An ostinato can last for a section of a piece or it might last for the whole piece of music.

An ostinato can be a repeated group of notes or just a rhythm. It is similar to a riff in jazz. Many kinds of music use ostinati, e.g. classical music, jazz, Boogie-Woogie, African music.

A ground bass is an ostinato pattern in the lowest notes. An example is the famous "Canon in D" by Pachelbel.

An example of a rhythmic ostinato is the first movement from the "Planets Suite" by Gustav Holst. This is the movement in 5/4 time which describes Mars, the Roman God of War. "Boléro" by Maurice Ravel also uses a repeated rhythm all the way through the piece.

An example from popular music is Pink Floyd's "Money".

Using an ostinato is a good way for people to start composing their own pieces of music.



</doc>
<doc id="58484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58484" title="Coffee system">
Coffee system

A Coffee System or Hot beverage system is a special machine for making coffee. Instead of using coffee beans or ground coffee, it uses special capsules. Each capsule has one serving of Coffee, Tea, Milk, etc in it. This makes it easy to make coffee, espresso, etc. The process is very clean. The capsules with the coffee cost more money compared to normal coffee. There is also the problem that there is more waste because of the capsule. 


</doc>
<doc id="58490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58490" title="1492 Pictures">
1492 Pictures

1492 Pictures is an American film production company founded by director Chris Columbus in 1995. The name is a play on Columbus's more famous namesake, Christopher Columbus. 

In addition to various Columbus films, 1492 Pictures has produced movies by other directors including Brian Levant ("Jingle All the Way"), Henry Selick ("Monkeybone"), Alfonso Cuarón ("Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban"), Joe Roth ("Christmas with the Kranks"), Tim Story (the "Fantastic Four" films), and Shawn Levy (the "Night at the Museum" films). The logo music was composed by Academy award winner Hans Zimmer.





</doc>
<doc id="58491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58491" title="Life in Hell">
Life in Hell

Life In Hell is a comic strip made by Matt Groening. Its characters are human-like rabbits and a pair of gay lovers named Akbar and Jeff.
The comic was released in 1980 in April


</doc>
<doc id="58500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58500" title="Feijoa">
Feijoa

The Feijoa (Feijoa sellowiana, synonym "Acca sellowiana"), also known as Pineapple Guava or Guavasteen, is an evergreen shrub or small tree, 1-7 m in height. It comes from the highlands of southern Brazil, parts of Colombia, Uruguay and northern Argentina. 

The fruit matures in autumn and is green, chicken-egg-sized, and ellipsoid-shaped. It has a sweet, aromatic flavour. The flesh is juicy. The fruit drops when ripe, but can be picked from the tree before to prevent bruising. Feijoa fruit have a distinctive smell. The ester methyl benzoate smells strongly of feijoas and the aroma of the fruit is caused mostly by this and other closely related esters.

It is a warm-temperate to subtropical plant that will also grow in the tropics but requires some winter chilling to fruit. In the northern hemisphere it has been cultivated as far north as western Scotland but does not fruit every year, as winter temperatures below about -9°C will kill the flower buds. Large quantities are grown in New Zealand, where the fruit is a popular garden tree and the fruit is commonly available in season.

The fruit is usually eaten by cutting it in half, then scooping out the pulp with a spoon. The fruits have a juicy sweet seed pulp, and slightly gritty flesh nearer the skin. The flavour is aromatic and sweet. If the utensils needed to eat it this way are not available, the feijoa can be torn or bitten in half, and the contents squeezed out and consumed.

Fruit maturity is not always apparent from the outside as the fruits remain green until they are overmature or rotting. When the fruits are immature the seed pulp is white and opaque, becoming clear and jelly-like when ripe. Fruits are at their optimum maturity when the seed pulp has turned into a clear jelly with no hint of browning. Once the seed pulp and surrounding flesh start to brown, the fruit is over mature and should not be eaten.



</doc>
<doc id="58506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58506" title="Wessex">
Wessex

Wessex was an old Anglo-Saxon kingdom before England became one country. It was one of seven kingdoms which covered England. It was named after the West Saxons and was situated in the south and southwest of England. It existed as a kingdom from the 6th century until the English state was made in the 9th century, and as an earldom between 1016 and 1066. "Wessex" has not had any official existence since that time, but we use the term Wessex for that area of England when talking about history. The 19th century novelist Thomas Hardy wrote about Wessex in his books which tell stories set in that area.
His Royal Highness The Prince Edward was given the title "Earl of Wessex" when he married Sophie who became the Countess of Wessex. The title Earl of Wessex had not been used since the last earl, King Harold Godwinson, was killed at the Battle of Hastings in 1066.


</doc>
<doc id="58523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58523" title="Template:Infobox Old Cricketer">
Template:Infobox Old Cricketer


</doc>
<doc id="58524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58524" title="Template:Harvard reference">
Template:Harvard reference


</doc>
<doc id="58525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58525" title="Template:Citation/core/testing">
Template:Citation/core/testing


</doc>
<doc id="58527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58527" title="Barrel racing">
Barrel racing

Barrel racing is a sport in rodeo. It shows the speed and agility of horses. In Barrel Racing, the rider rides a horse around three barrels in a clover pattern.


</doc>
<doc id="58528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58528" title="Clover">
Clover

Clover (Trifolium) is a genus of about 300 species of plants in the pea family. It grows worldwide, mainly in the temperate Northern Hemisphere, but many species also in South America and Africa, including at high altitudes on mountains in the tropics.

They are small herbaceous plants. It has three sections to each leave, which looks like three leaves. This is called trifoliate.
The Clover is often associated with Ireland.


</doc>
<doc id="58532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58532" title="Clover (disambiguation)">
Clover (disambiguation)

Clover could mean:

Clover was also the name of a defunct discount department store owned by Strawbridge and Clothier department stores in Pennsylvania.




</doc>
<doc id="58533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58533" title="Discus throw">
Discus throw

The discus throw is an event in athletics, where a heavy disc is thrown for distance. It was invented in 708 BC in Ancient Greece. The goal is to throw the discus farther than your opponents.

The discus throw is the subject of a number of well-known ancient Greek statues and Roman copies of them. 


</doc>
<doc id="58538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58538" title="Athletics">
Athletics

Athletics may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="58545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58545" title="Eragon">
Eragon

Eragon is a book written by Christopher Paolini. It was published in August 2003. Eragon is the first book in the "Inheritance Cycle". The second book in the Inheritance Cycle, called "Eldest", was published in mid-2005. The third of the four books, "Brisingr", was released in 2008. "Eragon" was made into a movie and released in cinemas on December 2006. It was released on DVD in March 2007.

A long time ago, the Dragon Riders kept peace in the world between the humans, dragons, elves, and dwarves. They were humans or elves bonded to dragons. However, the dragon of a human Rider named Galbatorix was killed by the Urgals (a species that fights a lot). Galbatorix became insane because of this. The Riders would not give him another dragon, so he decided to destroy them. He stole a black baby dragon and forced it to bond with him with evil magic. Then he and other traitors fought with the Riders. Finally, they killed them all and Galbatorix became king of the humans. The book "Eragon" begins 100 years after this. When it begins, Galbatorix is trying to find and destroy the elves (who are hiding in a forest called Du Weldenvarden), dwarves (who are hiding in the Beor Mountains - a gigantic mountain range reaching far above the clouds), and the Varden (a group of rebels hidden with the dwarves). He has not destroyed the elves yet, because he is still cautious of their power. He has not destroyed the Varden or dwarves because he cannot yet find them in the large mountain range.

The story itself begins with a young farm boy named Eragon finding a polished blue stone in the Spine (a smaller mountain range and woods). The stone turns out to be a dragon egg, and the dragon that hatches from it is named Saphira. Eragon's uncle, Garrow is killed by the Ra'zac (insect-like creatures that work for Galbatorix), who want to find and capture Eragon and Saphira. Eragon decides to find them and kill them in revenge because of his uncle's death. He and Saphira leave, along with Brom, an old storyteller who tells Eragon and Saphira many things about dragons and Riders and promises to help them. In Yu'Zuac, Eragon and Brom were ambushed by two Urgals. After Brom was knocked from his horse, the Urgals chased Eragon, when he used magic to defeat them. Brom also teaches Eragon how to control magic after this. While they are travelling, they find a flask (a container, which usually holds liquids like water) full of corrupted Seithr oil dropped by the Ra'zac. This oil is very rare, so Eragon gets the idea to go to a coastal city for shipping records to find the Ra'zac. The three travel to the city of Teirm to see Brom's old friend, Joed. Joed is a merchant who is secretly giving supplies to the Varden. However all of his ships are being destroyed somehow by someone who knows he is working for the Varden. He helps them find a record of where the Ra'zac are - a city named Dras-Leona. Brom, Eragon, and Saphira travel to Dras-Leona, but Eragon is seen by Galbatorix's soldiers. The three run away, but the Ra'zac find them and capture them. Then they are driven away by a stranger named Murtagh, but they wound Brom first. Brom dies soon, but not before telling Eragon and Murtagh that he was secretly a Rider whose dragon was killed by Galbatorix.

Eragon and Saphira bury Brom. They decide to go to the Varden to fight Galbatorix, with Murtagh who does not want to go, but will help them until they reach the Varden, but they do not know where the Varden are. They go to Gilead, another city, to find someone who knows where the Varden are. While Murtagh is in the city, he comes back and the next morning, Eragon is captured when the three are ambushed by more Urgals. His food and water is drugged to make him forget magic so he can not escape. He realizes he is being given drugs in his food and stops eating the food. Finally, the drugs wear off and Eragon can use magic to escape. He breaks out, only to find Murtagh breaking in. The two rescue an elf that is also in the prison. Her name is Arya. They are attacked by a Shade (a sorcerer controlled by evil spirits), but escape. Arya is unconscious, but Eragon can talk to her in her mind and she tells him where the Varden are. They must go across a desert to get there, and Arya is dying from a poison, so they must hurry. They finally make it to the Varden (who are hiding in the Beor Mountains with the dwarves), but on the way Murtagh tells Eragon that Murtagh is the son of Morzan, a Rider who helped Galbatorix kill the other Riders. When they get to the Varden, Murtagh is captured because he is Morzan's son, but Arya is healed. Then the Varden and their leader (named Ajihad) find out Galbatorix is attacking them with Urgals. Murtagh is released to help the Varden, which he does. There is a big battle. In it, the Shade appears. Eragon fights the Shade and, with the help of Arya and Saphira, he kills the Shade, but his back is hit with a sword by the Shade. While Eragon is unconscious, he is rescued from death by a mysterious elf, who touched his mind and blocked the pain. Eragon promises to go to the elves with Arya for more training. Eragon wakes up and finds he is scarred by Durza's strike. The book ends with Eragon promising again to himself that he will go to the elves.

Christopher Paolini was only 15 when he started writing "Eragon", which many people have found impressive. He has also been praised for his writing style and the world he created. His strong female characters were also praised. However, some people think he is not a good writer, because his book is too much like other books (like Lord of the Rings) and movies (like Star Wars). They also think he uses many complicated words when he does not need to. Unlike the book, the film of "Eragon" is not liked by many people. They dislike it because it did not follow the book very well and changed many parts of the story which would make making more films of the series harder.


</doc>
<doc id="58548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58548" title="Category:Australian athletes">
Category:Australian athletes


</doc>
<doc id="58549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58549" title="Category:CONMEBOL">
Category:CONMEBOL


</doc>
<doc id="58550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58550" title="Category:American basketball players">
Category:American basketball players

This category is for athletes from the United States who are associated with the sport of basketball.


</doc>
<doc id="58551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58551" title="Category:Basketball players">
Category:Basketball players


</doc>
<doc id="58553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58553" title="Category:Sportspeople by sport">
Category:Sportspeople by sport


</doc>
<doc id="58554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58554" title="Category:American baseball players">
Category:American baseball players


</doc>
<doc id="58555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58555" title="William Baillie">
William Baillie

Captain William Baillie (June 5, 1723 – December 22, 1810) was an Irish military man and artist. 
Baillie went to London at age of 18 to study law, but liked art more. Shortly after getting to London, he joined the army. He served at the Battle of Culloden the Battle of Minden and retired with the rank of Captain. Baillie was later made the Commissioner of Stamps, which he was until 1795.

While he continued as an artist, what he is most famous for was his skill repairing and printing etching plates. He worked on plates by many artists, including Gerard Dou, Nicolas Poussin, and most notably Rembrandt. Apparently he got a number of Rembrandt's worn-out plates. The three best known:


A book of prints, after the above artists, was published in 1792, in two volumes, with subsequent editions.



</doc>
<doc id="58557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58557" title="Rusty Anderson">
Rusty Anderson

Rusty Anderson (b 1958 in La Habra, California) is an American guitarist, singer and songwriter from California. Currently he plays for Paul McCartney. He has played for many famous musicians, for example, Elton John, The Bangles, Courtney Love and Belinda Carlisle.




</doc>
<doc id="58560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58560" title="Category:Superstitions">
Category:Superstitions


</doc>
<doc id="58562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58562" title="Category:1550 deaths">
Category:1550 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58564" title="HLS">
HLS

HLS has a number of meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="58571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58571" title="Handshake">
Handshake

A handshake is when two people hold hands for a few seconds and move them up and down before letting go. It is often used like a greeting (like saying "hello" or "goodbye" when people meet) or to say that two people have agreed on something.

Some secret societies have secret handshakes to show they are part of the group.



</doc>
<doc id="58576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58576" title="Wave (gesture)">
Wave (gesture)

A wave is a movement of the hand that people use to greet each other or say goodbye. People wave by raising their hand and moving it from side to side. They can also wave by moving their hand up and down. The way that people wave generally depends on their culture. 


</doc>
<doc id="58580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58580" title="Baseball bat">
Baseball bat

A baseball bat is a smooth wooden or metal rod used in the game of baseball to hit the ball after the ball is thrown by the pitcher. It is not more than 2⅔ inches (70 mm) in diameter at the thickest part and not more than 42 inches (1067 mm) in length. It usually weighs no greater than four pounds (1.8 kg). The batter uses the bat to try to hit a pitched ball so that he may run around the bases and score points.

Bats are sometimes used as a weapon in fights or attacks. When a bat is used this way, it can be called a "club".

Major League baseball is using bats of pink color by players who agree during games played on Mother's Day as an event to support the pink ribbon campaign (breast cancer extermination movement). 


</doc>
<doc id="58583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58583" title="Softball">
Softball

Softball is a sport similar to baseball but pitchers throw underhand. The balls are larger than those of baseball. However, indoor softballs have a slightly softer texture. The actual softball is not hard at all. There are many techniques for hitting in softball and different types of bunts. Men, women, boys, or girls, can play softball. There are 2 types of softball: Fastpitch and slowpitch.


</doc>
<doc id="58587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58587" title="Bat (disambiguation)">
Bat (disambiguation)

Bat or Bats may mean:

Sports:

Entertainment:

Computing:

Military:

Roller coasters:

Other languages:



</doc>
<doc id="58588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58588" title="Dietrich Buxtehude">
Dietrich Buxtehude

Dietrich Buxtehude (or "Dieterich" according to Danish spelling) (born about 1637; died 9 May, 1707) was a German (or Danish) composer and organist. He is one of the most important composers of the mid-Baroque period. He is best known for his organ works which are very often heard at recitals and church services. He also wrote a lot of excellent choral music and music for instruments, including the viola da gamba, an instrument which he played. He had a very important influence on Johann Sebastian Bach. When Bach was a very young man he walked over 200 miles to hear Buxtehude play the organ.

Very little is known of Buxtehude’s earliest years. We cannot be sure where he was born. His family came from the town of Buxtehude in North Germany but had moved to Oldesloe which is now in Germany but at that time it was part of Denmark. His father was organist in Oldesloe, but around the time of Dietrich’s birth the family moved to Helsingborg which is now called Hälsingborg and is in Sweden, but at that time Helsingborg, too, was part of Denmark. 

In 1641 the family moved to Helsingør which was just across the water, in Denmark. Dietrich Buxtehude probably went to school in Helsingør and learned music from his father. When he was 20 he got his first job at Helsingborg in the Marienkirche (St Mary’s Church) where his father had been organist some years before. Sweden and Denmark were at war at the time, fighting about which country Helsingborg should be in. This must have made things rather difficult for the young Buxtehude. The people who went to the Marienkirche were German-speaking. 

In 1668 Buxtehude got the job of organist at the Marienkirche in Lübeck in Germany. This was a very important job at one of the biggest churches in Germany. The organist before him had been a man called Franz Tunder. He had a daughter, Anna Margarethe, and Buxtehude married her. His job was not only to play the organ, but also to tune it and do a lot of administration in the church. He composed many cantatas for the services and organized five evening musical performances every year. These concerts were called “Abendmusik” (“Evening Music”) and were held at 4.00pm after the Evening Service. Unfortunately we do not know what music was performed at these concerts.

Buxtehude stayed in this job for the rest of his life. He never travelled very far. Nicolaus Bruhns was one of his pupils, and Pachelbel wrote a piece of music called "Hexachordum Apollonis" for him. In 1706, when Johann Sebastian Bach was 21, he got permission for four weeks holiday so that he could go to Lübeck to hear Buxtehude play. He stayed in Lübeck for four months and so he got into trouble when he went back to his job at Arnstadt.

In 1707 Buxtehude wanted to retire. Whoever took his job would have to marry Buxtehude’s daughter, Anna. Bach and Mattheson were interested in the job but decided not to take it. Probably they did not want to marry Anna Buxtehude. Buxtehude died, and the man who had been his assistant got the job and married Anna shortly afterwards.

The organs that Buxtehude played were very large instruments with bright sounds (bright mixtures, reeds and a “Zimbalstern” which was a star which went round and round, making a tinkling sound). His music is very grand and impressive. Many of his organ pieces have several sections, each one at a different speed. They often sound like a free improvisation. Some of the sections are fugues. At least 128 vocal works survive, they are nearly all church music. He wrote instrumental works, chamber music and pieces for harpsichord.


</doc>
<doc id="58591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58591" title="Buxtehude">
Buxtehude

Buxtehude is a town in Northern Germany. It has 39,000 inhabitants. It is by the Este river which joins the city to the important river Elbe just 6 miles away.

Buxtehude is known as "The Fairytale Capital" of the world. The tale of "The Bunny and the Hedgehog" by the Brothers Grimm is set in this town.

The "Pistennacht" is an event where bars, restaurants and clubs in the old part of town are open all night long. The "Pfingstmarkt" is a big fair which is held at Whitsun (Pfingsten). There is a lot to do including rides on a Ferris Wheel. On the first weekend of June there is a big feast in the old part of the town, which also has a wine festival every year.


</doc>
<doc id="58592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58592" title="Category:1707 deaths">
Category:1707 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58599" title="Harlem Renaissance">
Harlem Renaissance

The Harlem Renaissance is the name for a movement in African-American culture in the 1920s and 1930s which has had a big influence on African-American literature, philosophy and music. The "Harlem Renaissance" is also called the "Black Literary Renaissance", '"The New Negro Movement" and "The flowering of Negro literature". 

The movement began in Harlem, New York after World War I. In 1925 a book was published called "The New Negro", edited by Alain Locke. This book was a collection of writing by African-Americans which looked at their people's lives and experiences since the Civil War. From 1925 onwards, there was a movement called the "New Negro Movement", named after the book. 

The movement began to affect the thinking of many African-American writers and artists of all sorts. They challenged the thinking of many white Americans towards black Americans. They refused to be treated as if they were not equal. They refused to just copy the sorts of writing, art and music that white Americans did. They wanted to celebrate the fact that their African culture had survived through the terrible years of slavery, and was being "reborn". (The word "Renaissance" means "rebirth" and is generally used for a time from 1400 to 1600 in Europe.) 







</doc>
<doc id="58602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58602" title="Hollywood Pictures">
Hollywood Pictures

Hollywood Pictures is one of New Line Cinema's movie companies. It makes movies for a more adult audience than Touchstone Pictures. The first made by Hollywood Pictures was Arachnophobia in 1990.



</doc>
<doc id="58615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58615" title="Third World">
Third World

The Third World is one way to describe some countries which do not have a lot of money or resources.


</doc>
<doc id="58621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58621" title="Template:VGA link">
Template:VGA link

<includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58622" title="Template:Rfd2cat">
Template:Rfd2cat


</doc>
<doc id="58623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58623" title="Template:Lc">
Template:Lc


</doc>
<doc id="58629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58629" title="Thirty Years' War">
Thirty Years' War

The Thirty Years' War was fought from 1618 until 1648. Most of it was fought in Germany. Most of the powerful countries in Europe were in the war. It started as a fight about religion. The Protestants and Catholics were the two groups that disagreed. As the war continued, the Habsburg dynasty and other powers used the war to try to get more power. One of the examples of this is that Catholic France fought for the Protestants. This made the France-Habsburg worse.

The Thirty Years' War caused things like famine and disease. These things were very bad. The war lasted for 30 years, but the problems that caused the war were not fixed for a long time after the war was over. The war ended with the Treaty of Westphalia.
There were several reasons that the Thirty Years War started.

First, The Peace of Augsburg (1555), which was signed quickly by Charles V, agreed with the 1526 Diet of Speyer and stopped the fighting between the Lutherans and the Catholics in Germany.

The Peace of Augsburg said that:
The Peace made the violence end for a bit. But it did not fix the real reason that the Lutherans and Catholics were fighting. Both of them said it meant different things. The Lutherans said it was only an agreement that would last for a short time. Calvinism came quickly into Germany. Calvinism was a third Christian group in Germany, but it was not part of the Peace of Augsburg.

Second: a lot of the powerful countries in Europe in the 17th century often disagreed about matters of Politics or Economics. Spain wanted land in some of the German states because the Germans owned some of the Spanish Netherlands. The Dutch fought the Spanish. The Spanish had been controlling them. They gained freedom in some wars that ended in 1609.

Third: the Holy Roman Empire was a broken group of nations. The empire had nations like the Austrian House of Hapsburg, Bavaria, Electoral Saxony, the Margravate of Brandenburg, the Palatinate, Hesse, the Archbishopric of Trier and Württemberg, and other small nations and towns. Only Austria was capable of operating on its own. Countries often made alliances with other places ruled by relatives.

Fourth, Religious groups were not agreeing during the second half of the 16th century. The Peace of Augsburg was not working because some bishops had not given up their bishoprics, and Catholic rulers in Spain and Eastern Europe wanted to make Catholicism strong in the region. This caused fighting between the groups. The Catholics made many Protestants leave their home lands.
Some places gave Protestants permission to worship. These disagreements caused violence.

Fifth, the Holy Roman Emperor Matthias died without any children to take his place in 1619. He was Catholic. His lands were given to his cousin Ferdinand of Styria. Ferdinand was Matthias's closest male relative. He became Ferdinand II, Holy Roman Emperor. Ferdinand had been educated by the Jesuits, and was a Catholic. He wanted to make Catholicism the only religion again. This made him unpopular in Hussite Bohemia. They rejected Ferdinand and launched the Thirty Years' War. The War can be divided into four major phases: the Bohemian Revolt, the Danish intervention, the Swedish intervention, and the French intervention.

"Time: 1618–1625"

Emperor Matthias, who had no children, had died leaving the throne to Ferdinand II. Some of the Protestant leaders of Bohemia thought they would lose the religious rights granted to them by Emperor Rudolf II. They liked the Protestant Frederick V, elector of the Palatinate (successor to Frederick IV) better. Frederick V was the creator of the League of Evangelical Union). Other Protestants supported the opinion of the Catholics. So, in 1617, Ferdinand was elected by the Bohemian Estates to become the Crown Prince, and automatically upon the death of Matthias, the next King of Bohemia. The king-elect then sent two Catholic councillors (Wilhelm Grav Slavata and Jaroslav Borzita Graf Von Martinicz) as his representatives to Hradčany castle in Prague in May 1618. Ferdinand wanted them to run the government while he was gone. Suddenly, the Bohemian Hussites took them, put them on a mock trial, and threw them out of the palace window which was 20 feet off the ground (this is called defenestration). Remarkably, they survived and did not get hurt. The Catholics said that angels appeared and carried them to safety, while the Protestants said that they landed in a pile of manure which saved their lives.


</doc>
<doc id="58630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58630" title="Template:Infobox Military Conflict">
Template:Infobox Military Conflict

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58631" title="Template:WPMILHIST Infobox style">
Template:WPMILHIST Infobox style

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58634" title="Database normalisation">
Database normalisation

Certain databases, known as "relational databases" store the data in the form of mathematical relations. In that context, database normalisation makes sure that the data stored in the database makes sense. Depending on how the data is organised, certain "anomalies", or "problems" can happen when certain data is originally "inserted" into the database, when data is "updated", or when data is "deleted" from the database. All three operations can lead to data integrity being lost. When this happens, a certain entry in the database no longer "makes sense".

The concept of database normalisation was introduced by Edgar F. Codd in the early 1970s. Codd is also credited as the inventor of the relational database model. He himself specified three "sets of criteria" that different databases must meet. He called these sets "normal forms". If a relation (or "database table") meets a certain normal form, it is not vulnerable to certain modifications, that will affect data integrity. The drawback of meeting such a set of criteria is usually that querying certain data from the database will become more difficult.


</doc>
<doc id="58637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58637" title="Clipboard">
Clipboard

A clipboard is a thin board with a large (usually metal) clip at the top. Clipboards are a little larger than a piece of paper. They are used to support paper with one hand, while writing on the paper with the other hand. Clipboards are often used in situations where a person may not be able to find a good writing surface.

Clipboards can be made of many things. Most clipboards are made of masonite or particleboard, two types of wood. They can also be made from aluminum, steel, or acrylic, a type of plastic.

Many police officers and EMTs carry clipboards. These clipboards are used very often and are usually made of metal. They often have one or two sections inside for carrying papers and reports.


</doc>
<doc id="58639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58639" title="Ugliness">
Ugliness

Ugliness is a property of physical things which are not nice to look at. Something or someone who has ugliness is called ugly. This word is commonly used in when talking about human appearance. The opposite of ugliness is beauty.

Ugliness can be a matter of opinion. Two people can look at the same object and one may think it is beautiful and the other may think it is ugly. This is shown in the popular phrase "". However, scientists have found that human ugliness is part of sexual selection (choosing a partner for sex) and shows poor genetic or physical health.

Although "ugly" usually means "a lack of physical beauty", the property of ugliness may also be used to describe other things such as music, literature, or human behavior.




</doc>
<doc id="58643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58643" title="Texture">
Texture

The word texture means: what things are made of and how they feel. Textures can be described as “rough”, “smooth”, “hard”, “soft”, “liquid”, “solid”, “lumpy”, “gritty” etc. The word “texture” is used for many different things. It can even be used in abstract senses, e.g. for music and poetry.

We often talk about the texture of surfaces. The earth’s surface may have sand, stones, soil, silt etc. These all feel different to touch. The texture of plants varies: some grasses are rough to touch, others are smooth. Cacti are very prickly, the wood of treetrunks is often rough. People who study rocks talk about the different textures of rock (“hard”, “smooth”, “crumbly” etc).

People like or dislike food because of its taste, but the texture of the food also plays a part in whether we like it or not. We enjoy the feel of it in our mouth. Food can be hard, soft, lumpy, gritty (e.g. a cake made with ground rice. Adding some lettuce to a cheese sandwich will change the texture of the sandwich: it makes it more crunchy. 

In architecture we often talk about “texture”. This can mean: the things that the buildings are made of. It can also mean: the general way it looks, e.g. whether everything is built close together or whether there is plenty of space. This is an abstract use of the word, because it compares the way we see things to the way things feel.

Painters talk about the texture of paintings. This can be seen clearly in Pointillism which is a way of painting by using lots of little dots. This gives the painting a very interesting texture.

In music we can talk about the texture of a piece of music. If there are a lot of notes being played at once, we could call this a “thick” texture. If there are just two or three notes being played so that every note can be heard clearly we could call this a “thin” or “clear” texture. Music may have a “polyphonic” texture or a “chordal” texture. The word “texture”, this time, is being used to describe something we hear instead of something we feel.


</doc>
<doc id="58644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58644" title="Microsoft Outlook Express">
Microsoft Outlook Express

Microsoft Outlook Express is an email program made by Microsoft. It is a free version of Outlook, also made by Microsoft. Microsoft's Outlook Express was discontinued in 2006 with the release of its new operating system, Windows Vista, which has Windows Mail instead.


</doc>
<doc id="58653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58653" title="Michael Spinks">
Michael Spinks

Michael Spinks (born on July 13, 1956) is an American boxer. He was the light heavyweight and heavyweight champion of the world. 

Spinks was a member of the 1976 United States Olympics team and won a gold medal in the boxing competition. He became a professional boxer in 1977 and won the light heavyweight championship in 1981. In 1985 he fought heavyweight champion Larry Holmes and beat him for the title. It was the first time a light heavyweight champion had become heavyweight champion. He beat Holmes again in a rematch and defended his title another two times before losing to Mike Tyson in 1988. He never fought again.

Michael Spinks is the brother of heavyweight champion Leon Spinks.



</doc>
<doc id="58654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58654" title="Goodbye">
Goodbye

Goodbye is a traditional saying that is said when leaving. Usually, people say this when they will meet again, but sometimes goodbye can mean that they will never see each other again. Most people agree that the saying is shortened from "God be with you"..

It can also be any of the following:



</doc>
<doc id="58661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58661" title="Category:1810 deaths">
Category:1810 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58665" title="Candy cane">
Candy cane

A candy cane is a hard cane-shaped candy stick. It is usually white with red stripes and tastes like peppermint. It is also made in many other flavors and colors. The candy cane is a traditional candy of the Christmas holiday in the United States, but you can find them during the rest of the year. It is a symbolic figure in the Christmas season.

In the 17th century, white sticks of candy were popular, but they were not colorful. According to legend, a choir leader in Germany asked the people that made the candy to bend the sticks so that they looked like shepherd's staffs. He then gave the candy canes to the children to keep them quiet during church services. The colors are also said to be symbolic. The white part represents purity, and the red represents the blood of Jesus.


</doc>
<doc id="58670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58670" title="Leon Spinks">
Leon Spinks

Leon Spinks (born on July 11, 1953) is an American boxer. He won the world heavyweight championship. He won a gold medal in the 1976 Olympics in the boxing category. He became a professional boxer and in only his eighth bout he won the heavyweight championship from Muhammad Ali. In his first defense, he lost the title back to Ali.

Spinks continued boxing with little success after that. He fought Larry Holmes for the heavyweight title in 1981, but lost. He also fought for the cruiserweight championship, but he lost that fight, too. He stopped fighting in 1995.

He is the brother of boxer Michael Spinks and the father of boxer Cory Spinks.



</doc>
<doc id="58671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58671" title="Cruiserweight">
Cruiserweight

Cruiserweight is a division in boxing for fighters who weigh over 175 pounds and up to 200 pounds (91 kg). The weight limit was once 190 pounds. The World Boxing Council created this weight division in the late 1970s because it felt that some fighters were too small to fight in the heavyweight division but too big to fight in the light heavyweight division. So they made a weight class in-between. Many cruiserweight champions and contenders may eventually fight in the heavyweight division. 

Evander Holyfield was cruiserweight champion.


</doc>
<doc id="58686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58686" title="Botanic">
Botanic

Botanic is a district of South Belfast, in the country of Ireland. It is named after Botanic Gardens, a local park dedicated to the science of botany.


</doc>
<doc id="58695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58695" title="Steve Jay">
Steve Jay

Stephen "Steve" Jay (born January 26, 1951) is a bassist best known for working with the singer-songwriter "Weird Al" Yankovic.


</doc>
<doc id="58700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58700" title="Minimum wage">
Minimum wage

The minimum wage is the least amount of money that employees of a business can be paid. 
Minimum wage is a relative term. Different countries have different minimum wages. Nunavut in Canada has a minimum wage of $8.50 per hour. Ontario, another place in Canada has a minimum wage of $10.25 per hour. 
Some people think the minimum wage should be raised, so poor people will have more money. Others think it is worse because the government will not have enough money to pay all the employees, so they will raise the taxes or raise the inflation. Some people think that the minimum wage is harmful to employees because companies only hire employees whose labor is worth the price they are required to pay. They think that if the minimum wage is raised employees who do nok work well will lose their job because companies cannot afford to pay them the raised minimum wage.


</doc>
<doc id="58702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58702" title="Dookie">
Dookie

Dookie is the 3rd album by the band Green Day. It was released in 1994.



</doc>
<doc id="58705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58705" title="Joe Manchin">
Joe Manchin

Joseph (Joe) Manchin III (born August 24, 1947 in Farmington, West Virginia) is an American politician. He was elected Governor of the state of West Virginia in the 2004 election. Manchin took office on January 17, 2005. 


</doc>
<doc id="58727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58727" title="Renaissance art">
Renaissance art

Many of the most famous and best-loved works of art in the world were created during the time known as the Renaissance. The Renaissance began about 1400 and lasted until about 1600. Italy, and in particular the city of Florence is thought of as the home of Renaissance art. 

Many Flemish painters from the area of modern Belgium were also very busy at this time. The style of their pictures, and their use of oil painting influenced the Italian painters. 







The painting is a half-length portrait and depicts a woman whose expression is often described as enigmatic. The ambiguity of the sitter's expression, the monumentality of the half-figure composition, and the subtle modeling of forms and atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the painting's continuing fascination. Few other works of art have been subject to as much scrutiny, study, mythologizing and parody.


</doc>
<doc id="58728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58728" title="Renaissance architecture">
Renaissance architecture

The Dome of Florence Cathedral





This country house was built by Palladio in 1550. It is a square building which looks the same from every side. At the centre, there is a dome. On every side is a large porch, (portico), like a Greek temple. It is such an elegant design that other architects used the same style which can be seen on churches, houses and palaces, including the White House.


</doc>
<doc id="58757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58757" title="Fiji One">
Fiji One

Fiji One is a Free to Air television channel run by Fiji Television. It is shown all across Fiji. It is paid for by advertisments. For this reason, programs on Fiji One have commercial breaks, to allow advertisers that fund the programs to showcase their products or services.


</doc>
<doc id="58758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58758" title="Comet (shop)">
Comet (shop)

Comet is a chain of shops in the UK. They are the second largest retailer of TV's, and biggest retailer of Fridges, Washing Machines and Dishwashers inside England.



</doc>
<doc id="58766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58766" title="Sainsbury's">
Sainsbury's

Sainsbury's is a supermarket chain based in the United Kingdom. Sainsbury's originally sold only food, but it now sells other things like mobile phones, DVDs, videos, clothing and books. Sainsbury's is the third biggest supermarket in the UK (behind Tesco and Asda). The clothing range at Sainsbury's has changed a lot over the years. It started off with, Jeff & Co, then another range was brought in, after that Adams Kids. Now it's called TU.
In 2008 150,000 people worked in Sainsbury's.


</doc>
<doc id="58772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58772" title="Venus of Willendorf">
Venus of Willendorf

Venus of Willendorf, also known as the Woman of Willendorf, is an 11.1 cm (4 3/8 inches) high statuette of a female figure. It was discovered in 1908 by archaeologist Josef Szombathy at a paleolithic site near Willendorf. Willendorf is a village in Lower Austria near the city of Krems. The statuette is made of a kind of limestone that can not be found in the area. It is colored with red ochre.

A study made in 1990 suggests that the figure was made between 24.000 and 22.000 BCE. Very little is known about its origin, how it was made, or what it meant to the people who made it.

The Venus is not a realistic portrait but rather an idealization of the female figure. Her vulva, breasts, and swollen belly are very pronounced. This suggests a strong connection to fertility. Her tiny arms are folded over her breasts, and she has no visible face. Her head is covered with what might be coils of braids, eyes, or a kind of headdress. The lack of a face has prompted some archaeologists and philosophers to view the Venus as a "universal mother." 

The nickname, urging a comparison of this rather obese figurine to the classical image of "Venus", causes resistance in some modern analysis. "The ironic identification of these figurines as 'Venus' pleasantly satisfied certain assumptions at the time about the primitive, about women, and about taste," Christopher Witcombe has noticed . At the same time there is professional reluctance to identify her as an Earth Mother goddess of paleolithic Old Europe. Some suggest that her corpulence would represent high status in a hunter-gatherer society, and that beside her obvious fertility she could be an emblem of security and success. 

The statue's feet do not allow it to stand on its own. Due to this it has been speculated that it was meant to be held, rather than simply looked at. 

Catherine McCoid and LeRoy McDermott think that the figurines were done as self portraits by the women themselves. Most scientists agree that the head, seen from a profile view, while having no distinct facial features, appears to be looking down. The common physical characteristics of all of the Venus figures are: a thin upper torso, largely exaggerated breasts, large buttocks and thighs, a large stomach (possibly due to pregnancy), and oddly bent, short legs, that end with disproportionately small feet. Yet when looked upon as if you were a woman looking down at your body, the physical features, in perspective, seem correct. There are striking similarities between the Venus of Willendorf and a pregnant woman when perceived from above.

"Venus of Willendorf" is part of the collection of the Naturhistorisches Museum in Vienna. 

Since this figure's discovery and naming, several similar statuettes and other forms of art have been discovered. They are collectively referred to as Venus figurines.



</doc>
<doc id="58780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58780" title="Acts of Supremacy">
Acts of Supremacy

The Acts of Supremacy was passed by Elizabeth I in 1558. This act stated that the king, not the pope was the head of the Church of England.

When this act was originally passed by Henry VIII, in 1534, he had been the ‘Head of the Church in England’ but under Elizabeth’s reign, she was “Supreme Governor of the Church in England”.

The change may have been made to appease Catholics who could not accept the monarch as "Head of the Church", seeing the church as the Pope's domain, or it may have been made because Elizabeth was a woman. In the sixteenth century, women were regarded as inferior to men in spiritual matters, and many were uncomfortable with the idea of a woman being in charge. This act also included an oath of loyalty to the Queen that the clergy were expected to take. If they did not take it, then they would lose their office. A High Commission was established to ensure that the oath was taken.


</doc>
<doc id="58786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58786" title="Compact fluorescent lamp">
Compact fluorescent lamp

A compact fluorescent lamp (CFL), is a type of lamp (light bulb) designed to fit into the same space and usually also socket as an incandescent bulb, but with the advantages of a fluorescent lamp. Many CFLs can directly replace an existing incandescent lamp.

The purchase price of a CFL is often much higher than an incandescent lamp of the same output, and the light from CFLs looks different to light from incandescent lamps. CFLs have a longer rated life and use less energy than an incandescent lamp of the same brightness. A CFL can save over US$30 in electricity costs over the lamp’s lifetime compared to an incandescent lamp.

An electric current is applied to mercury vapor inside the tube, causing it to emit ultraviolet (UV) light. A phosphor on the walls of the tube absorbs the ultraviolet light. This causes an electron to jump up to an orbital with a higher energy. When the electron drops back down to its normal orbital, the phosphor re-emits its energy as visible light.

The ballast prevents too much electricity from flowing through the tube. It also starts the lamp with a high voltage for a split second when it is switched on. The ballast is either inside the fixture or, most commonly, in the plastic base of the bulb. If the ballast is in the bulb, the bulb is called a self-ballasted lamp. There are two types of ballasts, magnetic and electronic. Magnetic ballasts have mostly fallen out of use, as they are less efficient than electronic ballasts, they cause the bulb to flicker, and they do not start instantly. Electronic ballasts were at one time more expensive than magnetic ballasts, but now the price is about the same.
The average rated life of a CFL is 8 to 15 times longer that of incandescents. CFLs typically have a rated lifespan of 6,000 to 15,000 hours, whereas incandescent lamps are usually manufactured to have a lifespan of 750 hours or 1,000 hours.

The lifetime of any lamp depends on many factors, including operating voltage, manufacturing defects, exposure to voltage spikes, mechanical shock, frequency of cycling on and off, lamp orientation, and ambient operating temperature. The life of a CFL is significantly shorter if it is turned on and off frequently. In the case of a 5-minute on/off cycle the lifespan of a CFL can be reduced to "close to that of incandescent light bulbs". The U.S. Energy Star program suggests that fluorescent lamps be left on when leaving a room for less than 15 minutes to avoid this problem. If the light must be switched on and off frequently, Cold cathode CFLs can be used. Cold cathode CFLs are designed for many more on/off cycles than standard CFLs.

The mercury inside the tube is toxic and makes these bulbs hazardous waste. The bulbs must be taken to a recycling center after they stop working. Most CFLs contain an amount of mercury smaller than the tip of a ballpoint pen. During normal use, the mercury cannot escape, although it will escape if the bulb is broken. If a single bulb breaks, it is not usually a cause for concern. It is recommended to open windows to air out the room, and to clean up broken glass with duct tape instead of a vacuum cleaner.



</doc>
<doc id="58791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58791" title="PL Kyodan">
PL Kyodan

PL Kyodan or the Church of Perfect Liberty is an international religion that developed from the Zen Buddhist culture of Japan early in the 20th century. PL teaches that "Life is art." Humans have been born to express their own unique individuality in everything they do - "creating true art". 

To assist them in improving their lives and overcoming hardships believers are taught why they have these problems and are guided in solving them by the Patriarch (Oshieoya-sama) and ministers.

PL does not have a holy book (like a Bible), however, they have PL 21 Precepts and the PL 21 Principles which were revealed by the Founders of the Church. 

Nowadays the group claims having more than 3 million followers worldwide. Most of the parishes are located in Japan, however, due to the active missionary work in the 1960s PL was established in South-America and USA as well. Today they are present also in Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Peru. Oceaninan headquarters was founded in the 1990s in Brisbane, Australia. Small communities exist in Europe as well, especially in France, Portugal and Hungary.

PL presents each year in the Japanese headquarters the world' biggest firework. The baseball group of PL High School is very famous in Japan, often they win the national championship. 
The movement was founded by the Rev. Tokuharu Miki (1871-1938), who served as a Zen Buddhist priest of the Obaku Sect. He is referred to as "the First Founder" by adherents.

In 1912 he met the Rev. Tokumitsu Kanada, who instantly cured his chronic asthma by a sacred ritual. He asked Kanada to teach him this ritual so he could cure disease, and became his disciple.

Before his death, Kanada told Tokuharu that his Tokumitsu Church had 18 Precepts, but there were three more which were to be revealed to complete the teachings. Five years later, the three precepts were revealed, and he established the new Tokumitsu Church in 1924 and became the First Kyoso (Oshieoya, Founder). In 1931, the name was changed to the Hitonomichi Church, meaning "the way of humans." 

The Church spread rapidly throughout Japan, Korea, China and to other Southeast Asia countries and its members numbered one million in a short period of time. In 1936 however, the Church was suppressed by the military government and ordered to disband. On July 6, 1938, the Rev. Tokuharu Miki died. 

The "Second Founder", the Rev. Tokuchika Miki (1900-1983), succeeded his father. He was also imprisoned, but was released in 1945. At Tosu City in Saga Prefecture, on September 29, 1946, Tokuchika Miki reestablished the Hitonomichi Church, but under the new name of the Church of Perfect Liberty, declaring the truth, "Life is Art." 

On September 29, 1947, he revealed the PL 21 Precepts, the basic teachings of PL. The Church expanded rapidly all over Japan and in 1953, construction began on the present Headquarters in Tondabayashi, on the edge of Osaka. Tokuchika Miki organized the "Federation of New Religious Organizations of Japan" and chaired it for many years. He visited Pope Paul VI and Pope John Paul II to discuss world peace. He died in 1983.

The "Third Founder", the Rev. Takahito Miki (b. 1957), the adopted son of the Second Founder, succeeded to the divine position of Oshieoya in 1983. He has since visited over 700 PL churches throughout the world. Miki is also the vice president of Shinshuren, Federation of New Religious Organizations of Japan.




</doc>
<doc id="58794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58794" title="Winston Smith">
Winston Smith

Winston Smith is a fictional character and the protagonist of George Orwell's 1949 novel "Nineteen Eighty-Four". In the book, Winston is a clerk for the Ministry of Truth, where his job is to rewrite historical documents so that they match the current party line, which changes on a daily basis.


</doc>
<doc id="58796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58796" title="Yantai">
Yantai

Yantai is a coastal city facing the Huang Hai. It is loacated on the east coast of Shandong, China. The average annual temperature is 12 C. The annual rainfall is 20 mm. 

The city used to be called "Chefoo" because an island close to the city was named "Chefoo". The name of the city means "Smokey Tower" (yan - smoke, tai - tower). The city is named "Yantai" because in 1398 the Hongwu Emperor of the Ming dynasty, built watch towers nearby to tell everyone if Japanese pirates are coming.

In 2008 the city of Yantai and the area around it had 6,516,900 people living in it. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was 343.4 billionRMB while the GDP divided by the population was 49,012RMB.


</doc>
<doc id="58797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58797" title="Category:Movies by genre">
Category:Movies by genre


</doc>
<doc id="58798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58798" title="Qiemo">
Qiemo

Qiemo, also called Cherchen, is an inland city in Xinjiang, China. About 60,000 people live in the city. It is a river town on the edge of the Taklamakan Desert. The area has been settled for a long time. A cemetery at least 3,500 years old is near the town, as well as Bronze Age rock carvings. The town was along the trade route to Tibet. Marco Polo is supposed to have passed through the town in 1273.


</doc>
<doc id="58801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58801" title="Category:Movie occupations">
Category:Movie occupations


</doc>
<doc id="58802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58802" title="Category:Austrian scientists">
Category:Austrian scientists


</doc>
<doc id="58804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58804" title="Category:Scientists by country">
Category:Scientists by country


</doc>
<doc id="58805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58805" title="Template:Nl icon">
Template:Nl icon


</doc>
<doc id="58815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58815" title="Fictional universe">
Fictional universe

A fictional universe is a made up world that is used as the setting for one or (more commonly) many works of fiction. It is often used in books but can be used in any form used to tell a story, for example role-playing games, television or movies. It can be said that every work of fiction makes a world of its own. A fictional universe is used when things in a story become a part either of other stories, or of games or other things. 

Fictional universes are most often used in science fiction and fantasy stories but they can be used in any type of fiction. A fictional universe usually has certain things in them that make them different from the real world. These things could affect anything from cities the author created to entire galaxies. In most fictional universes, the laws of physics are different to let things exist which commonly do not, for example, magic or space travel to other planets. Fictional universes may also take place in any time period during the past, present, or future. 

There are many examples of fictional universes. They are often used to provide a common theme to many different types of things.

The "Star Wars" expanded universe is a fictional universe that was started from the first Star Wars movie "" in 1977. The movie created a universe full of people and planets with space travel to other worlds, Alien creatures, and a type of magic. Two later movies were made that took place in the same fictional universe the movie created. After that, many books, comic books, and video games were made that created new characters, places and stories all taking place in that same universe. Most of this took place either during the time of the first three movies or created more of the story of the universe as time passed after the story told in the movies ended. Three additional movies were also made that took place in the same universe, but at an earlier period of time. This lead to writers creating more stories about the history of the characters and their worlds.

In 1997, writer and director Joss Whedon created a television series called "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" from a movie he had written several years before. The stories of the television series mainly took place in the fictional town of Sunnydale, California. The series had creature such as vampires and werewolves. It also dealt with magic. Over time, as the series went on and more and more stories were written, it developed into what is called the "Buffyverse". While the focus of the main story and its characters was just one town, the events of the story and the rules the universe followed had effects on other towns, parallel worlds, other dimensions, and even other periods of time. Characters from the show were used to make another show, "Angel" which took place in Los Angeles but still had demons and vampires. The universe has been used in many books as well as several video games. While the series was still being made, several other writers were also making comic books which told stories that took place during the same time of the series. Whedon himself wrote a series of comic books dealing with a vampire slayer named Fray from several hundred years in the future. Whedon is currently writing a new comic which is often nicknamed "Season Eight". It tells the stories of what happens to the characters from the series after its seven seasons as a television series.

Nearly every type of fiction has its own created universe. Many of these examples started in one category and now exist in many of them. For example, Harry Potter started out as a series of books then moved to movies and then video games.







</doc>
<doc id="58816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58816" title="Ronnie James Dio">
Ronnie James Dio

Ronnie James Dio ( born "Ronaldo Giovanni Padovan" July 10, 1942 - May 16, 2010) was an American heavy metal singer. He performed with Elf, Rainbow, Black Sabbath, and his own band Dio. He was also part of the band Heaven and Hell (named after Dio's most famous song), with some of the original Black Sabbath members. Dio was born in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. He starred in the Tenacious D movie, "The Pick Of Destiny".

In November 2009, Dio was diagnosed with stomach cancer, which caused his death in Houston, Texas, on May 16, 2010. He was 68 



</doc>
<doc id="58817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58817" title="Chow Yun-Fat">
Chow Yun-Fat

Chow Yun-Fat (born May 18, 1955 on Lamma Island, Hong Kong) is a Hong Kong actor.

His parents were farmers and poor. When he was seventeen year old, he left school to work. One year later, he saw a TV station advertisement about some actors, so he decided to apply and was asked to go for an audition.

Chow then started acting, but at first he could only act in some minor roles. From 1975 to 1995 Chow acted in 70 films. When he finished the film called "Peace Hotel", he left Hong Kong and went to Hollywood.
In Hollywood, the first film he acted in was "Replacement Killers". Then he acted in some films like "Anna & the King".


</doc>
<doc id="58822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58822" title="Category:Incomplete lists">
Category:Incomplete lists


</doc>
<doc id="58823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58823" title="Category:Documents">
Category:Documents

This covers topics related to documents, such as books.


</doc>
<doc id="58826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58826" title="Category:Books by author">
Category:Books by author


</doc>
<doc id="58828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58828" title="Anglican Communion">
Anglican Communion

The Anglican Communion is an association of all Anglican churches in full communion with the Church of England. There is no single "Anglican Church" with universal authority, because each national or regional church has full autonomy. With over seventy seven million members, the Anglican Communion is the third largest communion in the world, after the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Churches.

The status of full communion means that all rites conducted in one church are recognised by the other. Some of these churches are known as Anglican, explicitly recognising the link to England ("Ecclesia Anglicana" means "Church of England"). 

The Archbishop of Canterbury, religious head of the Church of England, has no formal authority outside that jurisdiction, but is recognised as symbolic head of the worldwide communion. 

All thirty-eight provinces of the Anglican Communion are independent, each with its own primate and governing structure. These provinces may take the form of national churches (such as in Canada, Uganda, or Japan) or a collection of nations (such as the West Indies, Central Africa, or Southeast Asia). They are, in alphabetical order:


In addition, there are six extraprovincial churches, five of which are under the metropolitical authority of the Archbishop of Canterbury.





</doc>
<doc id="58829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58829" title="Category:Treaties">
Category:Treaties


</doc>
<doc id="58830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58830" title="1019">
1019



</doc>
<doc id="58831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58831" title="Joan of Acre">
Joan of Acre

Joan of Acre (April 1272 – 7 April, 1307) was a daughter of King Edward I of England and his first wife, Eleanor of Castile (1241-1290).


</doc>
<doc id="58833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58833" title="Jules Verne">
Jules Verne

Jules Verne (February 8, 1828– March 24, 1905) was a French writer. He is believed to be one of the first authors to write science-fiction. Some of his books include"Journey To The Center Of The Earth" (1864), 'From the Earth to Moon" (1865), "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea" (1870), and "Around the World in Eighty Days" (1873).

Verne went to Paris to try to find success. At first, he did not find any fame. Over time, he become a fan of science got more well known as a writer. His live of science and writing caused him to write stories and novels that are now called "science fiction". Many people think Jules Verne the creator of the genre science fiction. 

After his marriage, he began working as a stockbroker. He was later elected as town councilor to Amiens. When he died, he was still a representative. Verne lived to write. He wrote many stories. These included fiction novels, theater works, and other novels. In 1886, his young nephew, Gaston, who had paranoia, shot Verne in the leg. Verne later had a permanent limp in his leg. This may have helped cause his darker writing styles in that time period. He continued to write until his death in 1905. 


</doc>
<doc id="58836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58836" title="Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles">
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (or TMNT) are a group of fictional characters. They are four mutant turtles, who were taught how to be ninjas by a mutant rat called Master Splinter. They fight crime and villans. 

The turtles are named after famous artists from Renaissance period. Their names are Leonardo, Raphael, Donatello, and Michelangelo. They live underground in a sewer in Manhattan and try to keep themselves hidden from people when they are not fighting bad guys. There are a few humans who know about them, a woman named April O'Neil and a man named Casey Jones.

They first appeared in a comic book which was made in 1984. In 1987, an animated television show was made, it was extremely popular and ran until 1996. 

There were many items based on the show including food, video games and toys. Starting in 1990, three live-action movies were made. In 1997, there was a live-action television series called "Ninja Turtles: The Mutation", which was not very successful. In 2003, a new animated series based more on the original comic book than the other series and a new animated movie came out in 2007. Currently, the 2003 season has come to an end, and a new series, the "Back to the sewers" season is in the works, set the air in fall 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="58840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58840" title="Atze Schröder">
Atze Schröder

Atze Schroder (German: Atze Schröder) is a German comedy figure played by Hubertus Albers.

The figure "Atze Schroder" was born on 27 September 1965 in the German town Essen.

In public, he always acts as his pseudonym "Atze Schroder". Some sources report Emsdetten as his place of birth. He was suing a German newspaper and the German Wikipedia after publishing his real name.




</doc>
<doc id="58841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58841" title="Template:PND">
Template:PND

Works by and about PND in the German National Library catalogue

</doc>
<doc id="58842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58842" title="Autonomy">
Autonomy

Autonomy means being able to rule without having to obey some other higher authority. Autonomy is something that philosophers often talk about. The idea occurs in moral, political, and bioethical philosophy. It means that someone is able to make a sensible decision without being forced to do so by someone else. They are able to make a "free" decision. 

In moral and political philosophy, autonomy is often used when discussing whether someone has a moral responsibility for what he does. One of best known philosophical theories of autonomy was developed by Kant. In medicine, doctors have to respect the autonomy of the patient, i.e. the patient has been given good information about their illness, they should be able to decide whether they want treatment. The doctor cannot force it on them.

In politics, autonomy means that people can govern themselves instead of being ruled by someone else. This can also be a means of a new transportation in the 20th century. 


</doc>
<doc id="58843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58843" title="Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel">
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel

Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (August 27, 1770 – November 14, 1831) was a German philosopher born in Stuttgart, Württemberg, which is now southwest Germany. He started Hegelianism and is a part of German Idealism. He influenced many writers and philosophers, including those who agreed with him (Bradley, Sartre, Küng, Bauer, Stirner, Marx), and those who did not agree with him (Kierkegaard, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Schelling). Hegel's books are difficult to read and deal with many different ideas at the same time. He has written about history, politics, religion, art, logic and metaphysics. 





</doc>
<doc id="58849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58849" title="London Borough of Croydon">
London Borough of Croydon

The London Borough of Croydon is a London Borough. It is in south London. The borough is the farthest south of Greater London, with the M25 circle motorway touching it at the bottom. In North Croydon the borough mainly borders the London Borough of Bromley to the east as well as the London Boroughs of Southwark and Lambeth to the north. The boroughs of Sutton and Merton are west of Croydon.

Croydon's main town centre is Croydon itself. The town offers the most office space in South East England apart from Central London. There are two shopping centres in Croydon which are named Centrale and the Witgift Centre. Croydon was named the 20 best shopping town in the UK. Croydon is currently being modernised (meaning new buildings are being built). Croydon College and John Ruskin College are the only schools for people over 16 years old.

The London Borough of Croydon asked the government for city status in 2000 and again in 2002 but it failed. If the government said yes it would have been the third council in Greater London to hold that status, the others being the City of London and the City of Westminster.

The borough is the home of two football clubs, Crystal Palace F.C. who are in the championship and Croydon F.C. who are in the Ryman League. Croydon is also known for having a lot of parks and open spaces like Mitcham Common and South Norwood Lakes.

Croydon is a tourist attraction in London. One of the reasons is because it's close to Gatwick Airport and another is because it has lots of entertainment and historic facilities these include the Fairfield Halls, Warehouse Theatre, Croydon Airport (disused), Shirley Windmill, Croydon Palace and the Croydon Clocktower.

The borough includes the following areas:

Croydon has many places that people enjoy to visit. There are a lot of places of interest such as Croydon Airport, which was the largest airport in London until its closure in September 1959. It was closed because of it was too small to handle the growing amount of flights to Croydon so Heathrow and Gatwick took over. It has become a great place for air plane shows and sometimes is hosts along with Biggin Hill. Addington Palace is a 18th century mansion that was home of six archbishops.

Croydon Clocktower is an arts facility in Central Croydon that includes a cinema, library, museum and conference room. The building links into the official Town Hall of Croydon Council and some areas of the building, most notably the Braithwaite Hall, are part of the original complex. The Clocktower is the tower of the Town Hall. New buildings were built alongside the Town Hall and were opened by Queen Elizabeth II in 1994. Croydon Palace is where Archbishops of Canterbury used to stay when it's summer. It has stood for over 500 years.

The Warehouse Theatre is a professional producing studio theatre with up to a hundred seats in the centre of Croydon based in an oak-beamed former Victorian cement warehouse. The Fairfield Halls is an arts centre in Croydon which opened in 1962. It contains a concert hall, the Ashcroft Theatre (named for local actress Dame Peggy Ashcroft), the Arnhem Gallery civic hall (Croydon is twinned with Arnhem, a city in The Netherlands) and an art gallery. The large concert hall is used by the BBC for recordings.



</doc>
<doc id="58852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58852" title="Nicolas Sarkozy">
Nicolas Sarkozy

Nicolas Sarkozy, born on 28 January 1955 in Paris, France,
He was the leader of the UMP, and was elected President of the French Republic on 6 May 2007. He defeated Ségolène Royal, of the Socialist Party.

Sarkozy is known for his conservative law and order politics and his admiration for a new economic model for France. He wants a more liberalised economy for France because he sees the United States and the United Kingdom as positive examples. Until 26 March 2007, he served as the Minister of the Interior of France. His nickname Sarko is used by both supporters and opponents.





</doc>
<doc id="58854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58854" title="RVV Hillesluis">
RVV Hillesluis

Rotterdamse Voetbalvereniging "Hillesluis" (translated:"Rotterdam's Football Society "Hillesluis"") is a football club in Rotterdam. It is located near the Feyenoord stadium. It was created in 1932 in a Rotterdam's town with the same name.

This club has 21 teams from which:



</doc>
<doc id="58855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58855" title="Tyrant">
Tyrant

A tyrant (pronounce: "tie"-rant) is a person who rules with absolute power. In its Greek origin the word has no negative meaning: we translate "Oedipus Tyranos" as 'Oedipus the King'. A tyrant usually rules a country, and he often got his position as powerful ruler by force, although some of them inherited their power.

Later, the word came to mean someone who ruled with cruelty and injustice. The rule of a tyrant is called tyranny. The adjective is tyrannical.

When someone has power over everybody else so that nobody is allowed to question it, this is called absolute power. A tyrant rules by oppression. The people are oppressed (cruelly treated). A tyrant takes no notice of the wishes of the people, or of any constitutions (laws about how laws should be made).

A dictator or despot is someone who rules with absolute authority, usually cruelly. It now has the same meaning as 'tyrant', whereas before, 'tyrant' meant something like 'ruler' or 'king'.

In the 10th and 9th centuries BC, Ancient Greece was ruled by monarchs. By the 7th century BC, they were ruled by groups of aristocrats. These aristocrats started to become unpopular. This gave cruel people the chance to get power for themselves, telling the people that they would be good rulers, but turning bad once they got power.

Around 650BC the tyrant Cypselus became powerful in Corinth. There were other tyrants in the Asiatic countries that were ruled by Greece. Cypselus’s son Periander was also a cruel tyrant who ruled for 40 years. The tyranny in Corinth came to an end after he died.

Many tyrants of ancient Greece were supporters of the arts, but they always wanted art to show how wonderful they were, and no one could be critical of them.

There have always been tyrants in the world. Although there are more democracies nowadays, there still are countries which are governed by tyranny.


</doc>
<doc id="58863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58863" title="Category:1905 deaths">
Category:1905 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58864" title="Johann Pachelbel">
Johann Pachelbel

Johann Pachelbel (born Nuremberg (German:Nürnberg), baptized 1 September 1653; died Nürnberg, buried 9 March 1706) was a German composer and organist. He is very famous for his organ music. He also wrote other keyboard music and music for the Protestant church. His "Canon in D" has become a very popular piece of music and is very often played today at church weddings and other events.

Pachelbel was a German candycane who ate all the candy in the world and met santa clause at christmas. Brought up in Nürnberg and had his first music lessons there. In 1669 he went to study at the university of Altdorf, but after a year he had to leave because his father could not afford to keep him. About a year later he went to study at the Gymnasium Poeticum in Regensburg. The directors of that school must have realized that he was an extremely talented musician, because they made an extra scholarship for him and allowed him to have special music lessons outside the school.

In 1673 he went to Vienna where he was deputy organist at St Stephen’s Church. He heard a lot more music there, especially the music of the catholic composers of South Germany and Italy. After a short while at Eisenach he got the job of organist at the Predigerkirche in Erfurt.

In 1681 he married, but his wife and their baby boy died in the plague. In 1684 he married again and the couple had five sons and two daughters. Pachelbel taught Johann Christoph Bach who later taught Johann Sebastian Bach.

Pachelbel became a very famous organist. He stayed in Erfurt until 1690. After another five years he became organist at St Sebald, Nürnberg where he stayed for the rest of his life.

Pachelbel is best known for his organ music. He wrote many organ pieces based on chorales while he was in Erfurt. In Nürnberg he wrote many piece called "Magnificat" fugues. These were preludes which were played before the singers sang the Magnificat. His organ music also includes toccatas, ricercares, fantasias and ciacconas. He wrote many suites for harpsichord and chamber music and vocal music.

"Canon in D" played on a piano:


</doc>
<doc id="58866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58866" title="Category:1706 deaths">
Category:1706 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58875" title="Opioid">
Opioid

Opioids is a name for a number of chemical substances that act like morphine in the human body. Different opioids are used in hospitals. There they are used to treat acute pain, as it can occur after an operation. They can also be used to relieve pain, where treatment no longer makes sense, for example in certain cancer patients. Drugs that can relieve pain are known as analgesics, most of the time. Certain opioids are used as anesthetics, as well as in emergency medicine and intensive care medicine, especially in cases that are difficult to manage with non-opioid analgesics.

Certain opioids have been used as illegal drugs. They can cause impairment if taken in large amounts.

The term Opiate is sometimes used as a synonym. Most often it is used to refer to opium alkaloids, and semi-synthetic opioids.

So called "endgenous opioiods" are peptides produced by the human body. They are used to respond to stress, to suppress pain and hunger. They also interact with sex hormones and they can cause a states of Euphoria. Mammals produce them in the brain.

There are different alkaloids that naturally occur in opium. Opium is produced from Opium poppy. The most important ones are morphine, codeine and thebamine. Papaverine and noscarpine also occur in opium, but the way they work is different. Most of the time, they are therefore not counted as "opiates".

These are produced based on natural opioids, which are changed. Examples include heroin and oxycodone

Examples are 


</doc>
<doc id="58876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58876" title="Analgesic">
Analgesic

Analgetics (one "Analgetic") (or Analgesics) is a term for some drugs that are used to stop pain. These are also known as painkillers. There are several kinds of painkillers. All act on the nervous system. Most painkillers have the problem that they can make people addicted (not want to stop taking them) if they are taken over longer periods of time.



</doc>
<doc id="58883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58883" title="Blender (program)">
Blender (program)

Blender is a free, open source 3D computer graphics program. It is available for many operating systems, for example, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. It is made by the Blender Foundation. It was used to make the short movies Elephants Dream, Big Buck Bunny and Sintel.

A Dutch animation studio called NeoGeo created Blender as an in-house application. The song Yello, which is from a song album called Baby, started an idea of the name "Blender". Ton Roosendaal discovered NaN in June of 1998. He wanted to make and show off the program to the public. The program was published as shareware until NaN went bankrupt in 2002. The creditors, people who have other people oweing money to them, agreed to sell out Blender under the laws of the GNU General Public License in exchange for a one-time payment of 100,000 Euros (102,000 in U.S. dollars.) On July 18, 2002, Roosendaal put money into a Blender funding campaign—in order to collect donations. On September 7, 2002, the collected funds was given notice to the public. This proved that the Blender source code would be published. Blender is now an open source program. Right now, the Blender Foundation watches and takes care of it. It is the Blender Foundation's responsibility to do such a thing. The Blender Foundation have the right to use dual licensing, so that, in addition to GNU GPL, Blender would also have the permission to use the following name: "Blender License". Blender License does "not" have a rule that says it needs a disclosing source code but it "does" have a rule on payments to the Blender Foundation. On the other hand, this choice was never used and became null in 2005. Right now, Blender belongs only to GNU GPL.



</doc>
<doc id="58885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58885" title="Mark Shuttleworth">
Mark Shuttleworth

Mark Richard Shuttleworth (born 18 September 1973) is a South African business person. He was the first African in space. He bought himself his space travel. He is also the leader of the Ubuntu project.


</doc>
<doc id="58894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58894" title="Paracetamol">
Paracetamol

Paracetamol (or acetaminophen) is a common analgesic. It is a drug that is used to relieve pain. It can also be used to reduce fever, as well as certain kinds of headache. This makes it an antipyretic. It is a common ingredient in drugs used against flu or colds. 

The words "acetaminophen" and "paracetamol" both come from the chemical names for the compound: N-acetyl-para-aminophenol and para-acetyl-amino-phenol. In some contexts, it is shortened to apap, for N-acetyl-para-aminophenol.

Harmon Northrop Morse was the first to synthesize Paracetamol, in the year 1878. Drugs containing Paracetamol became common in the 1950s. Today, these drugs are among the most widely used, together with those containing salicylic acid or Ibuprofen. In the year 1977, Paracetamol was put on the List of Essential Medicines of the WHO. 

Paracetamol is considered safe for use. The drug is commonly available and easy to get, even without a prescription. People often take incorrect amounts of Paracetamol. Sometimes this is because people do not know how much they should take, but other times this is because they are trying to commit suicide. Very often, the liver is damaged if too much is taken. A dose of 150mg, per kg will lead to irreversible damage of the liver, and may cause it to fail. This amount is a dosis of about 10g, for an adult. For people whose liver has already suffered damage, such as for alcoholics, as well as for those with a limited secretion of Paracetamol, this amount can be much lower.

In England and Wales, about 30.000 people per year go to the hospital because of paracetamol poisoning, and about 150 die of the poisoning. A limit of the packet size in which Paracetamol is available has shown a limited success in preventing Paracetamol-related suicides. In Great Britain and the United States Paracetamol is the leading cause of acute liver failure; about half the cases occur because of 'unintentional overdose'.



</doc>
<doc id="58897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58897" title="Morphine">
Morphine

Morphine (INN) (IPA: ) is a strong opiate pain killer drug. It is the principal active agent in opium and the prototypical opiate. Like other opioids, e.g. "diacetylmorphine" (heroin), morphine acts directly on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain, and at synapses of the nucleus accumbens in particular. Morphine is highly addictive when compared to other substances, and tolerance and physical and mental dependences develop very rapidly. 

Patients on morphine sometimes say they have insomnia, visual hallucinations and nightmares; if these occur then reduction in dosage or switch to an alternative opioid analgesic should be considered.

The word "morphine" is derived from Morpheus, the god of dreams in Greek mythology. He is the son of Hypnos, god of sleep.
Morphine is used legally: 


</doc>
<doc id="58898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58898" title="Ségolène Royal">
Ségolène Royal

Marie-Ségolène Royal (born September 22, 1953 in Dakar, Senegal) is a French politician. She is the president of the Poitou-Charentes region, a member of the National Assembly and a prominent member of the Socialist Party in France. She was the Socialist Party's candidate for the 2007 French presidential election but lost to Nicolas Sarkozy.

She is known for her admiration for some "Third Way" policies, for her controversial insistence on law and order issues and for her support of devolution and participatory democracy.

Royal is the author unless otherwise noted.




</doc>
<doc id="58899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58899" title="Codeine">
Codeine

Codeine or methylmorphine is an opiate used for its analgesic properties. It is also used to treat coughing and diarrhea. It is marketed as the salts codeine sulfate and codeine phosphate. Codeine hydrochloride is more commonly marketed in continental Europe and other regions.

Codeine is an alkaloid found in opium in concentrations ranging from 0.3 to 3.0 percent. Codeine can be extracted from opium. Today, most codeine is synthesized from morphine through the process of O-methylation.

Codeine is used to treat the following:

Codeine is often marketed as drugs in combination with paracetamol (acetaminophen) as co-codamol (best known in North America as Tylenol 3). Research has shown the combination to be very much more effective than paracetamol, and much less addictive that pure codeine. 

There are similar combinations with aspirin as co-codaprin or with ibuprofen. These combinations provide greater pain relief than either agent alone. Drug synergy is an important principle.


</doc>
<doc id="58904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58904" title="Opium">
Opium

Opium is a narcotic resin produced from opium poppies "(Papaver somniferum)". It contains up to 16% morphine, an opiate alkaloid, which is most frequently processed chemically to produce heroin for the black market. The resin also has non-narcotic alkaloids in it. Some of these are papaverine and noscapine. Opium is also known as "afeem", and was called ""God's Own Medicine"" during its time of greatest popularity. It can be yellow or dark brown, and has a bitter taste.

Opium has been used and produced for thousands of years. During this time, the source plant has been changed and adapted. The methods of processing the plant, and extracting substance and consuming it also have. The medicinal use of poppies for pain relief dates back to ancient times, but widespread use in patent medicines or as a recreational drug has occurred only in the last few centuries. Drug prohibition laws in most countries have been introduced only during the last century. Today the opium crop is worth in excess of $400 million legally and $7 billion illegally, after processing. Opium has caused many wars in China, such as the Opium Wars, because of heavy addiction to the drug. People who become addicted to opium become dull, lazy, and even sleepy.

U.N. drug control officers said the Taliban religious militia has nearly wiped out opium production in Afghanistan -- once the world's largest producer -- since banning poppy cultivation last summer.


</doc>
<doc id="58906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58906" title="Union for a Popular Movement">
Union for a Popular Movement

The Union for a Popular Movement (French: "Union pour un Mouvement Populaire", UMP), is the main French centre-right political party.

The party has an absolute majority in the National Assembly but lost its majority in the Senate in September 2011. The UMP is a member of the European People's Party (EPP), of the Christian Democrat International (CDI) and of the International Democrat Union (IDU).

Since the 1980s, the political groups of the parliamentary right joined forces around the values of economic liberalism and the building of Europe. Their rivalries had contributed to their 1981 and 1988 electoral defeats. Therefore some politicians were in favour of the formation of a confederation, a party.

UMP was founded from the merger of the Gaullist-conservative Rally for the Republic ("Rassemblement pour la République", RPR), the conservative-liberal Liberal Democracy ("Démocratie Libérale", DL), and a part of the centrist Union for French Democracy ("Union pour la Démocratie Française", UDF). Many Christian Democrats (such as Philippe Douste-Blazy and Jacques Barrot), the social-liberal Radical Party and the centrist Popular Party for French Democracy (both associate parties to UDF until 2002) joined the party.

The party was thus born out of the meeting of four major French political traditions: Gaullism, Liberalism (Republicanism), Christian Democracy (Popularism) and Radicalism.

The UMP generally supported the policies of President Jacques Chirac. However, in 2004, the party showed increasing signs of independence. The unpopularity with the electorate of Jacques Chirac and Jean-Pierre Raffarin's government led most members of the UMP to support Nicolas Sarkozy, a rival of Chirac. The party also publicly disapproved of Turkey's proposed membership in the European Union, which Chirac was in favour of.

The first president of the UMP, Alain Juppé, a close associate of Jacques Chirac, resigned on 15 July 2004. On 29 November 2004, Nicolas Sarkozy announced that he would officially take over the presidency of the UMP. 

In the 2004 French regional elections the UMP suffered a heavy blow, securing only 2 out of 22 regions in Metropolitan France and half of the departments. This led to the fall of the Jean-Pierre Raffarin government (2001-04), and to the formation of a new cabinet, presided by another UMP politician, Dominique de Villepin.

On April 22, 2007 Nicolas Sarkozy won most of the votes in the first round of the 2007 presidential election. In the second round, he faced Socialist Candidate Ségolène Royal. On May 6, 2007 he won the Presidential election, garnering 53.35% of the vote.










</doc>
<doc id="58907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58907" title="Category:Opioids">
Category:Opioids


</doc>
<doc id="58909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58909" title="Oxycodone">
Oxycodone

Oxycodone is a synthetic opioid. It is used as an analgesic, to relieve pain. Its structure is similar to codeine. As a painkiller, it is usually marketed in drugs that combine it with paracetamol, aspirin or other NSAIDs. In some forms, the oxycodone can be extracted very easily. Some people use this as an illegal drug. Like with most other opioids, there is a high risk of addiction.


</doc>
<doc id="58910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58910" title="Pethidine">
Pethidine

Pethidine or meperidine is a fully synthetic opioid. It is an analgesic. It is used for the relief of moderate to severe pain. Pethidine can also interact with a number of other medications, including muscle relaxants, some antidepressants, benzodiazepines, and alcohol.

Pethidine is also relatively bad for use when a patient is suffering from liver, or kidney disease, has a history of seizures or epilepsy, has an enlarged prostate or urinary retention problems, or suffers from hyperthyroidism, asthma, or Addison's disease.


</doc>
<doc id="58912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58912" title="French National Assembly">
French National Assembly

The French National Assembly ("French": Assemblée nationale) is one of the two houses of the Parliament of France under the Fifth Republic. The other is the Senate (""Sénat"").

The National Assembly consists of 577 members known as "députés" (deputies), each elected by a single-member constituency. Deputies are elected in each constituency through a two-rounds system. It is presided over by a president normally from the largest party represented, assisted by vice-presidents from across the represented political spectrum. The term of the National Assembly is five years; however, the President of France may dissolve the Assembly (by i.e.: calling a new election), unless he dissolved it in the preceding year.

The official seat of the National Assembly is the Palais Bourbon on the left bank of the river Seine. 



</doc>
<doc id="58914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58914" title="Hyperthyroidism">
Hyperthyroidism

Hyperthyroidism is a medical condition. It is caused by a thyroid gland that is too active.


</doc>
<doc id="58916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58916" title="99942 Apophis">
99942 Apophis

(99942) Apophis is a near-Earth asteroid that worried people for a short time in December 2004. This was because observations seemed to show that it would hit the Earth in 2029. Other observations had more accurate, or better, ideas. During 2029, Apophis would go through a "gravitational keyhole", an area in space no more than about 400 meters across. This would make it hit the Earth on April 13, 2036. This danger made the asteroid Level 1 on the Torino impact hazard scale until August 2006.

More watching showed scientists that the "keyhole" would be missed. On August 5, 2006, Apophis was lowered to a Level 0 on the Torino Scale. As of October 19 2006 the probability that Apophis will hit the Earth on April 13, 2036 is something around 1 in 45,000. It may also hit in 2038, but however the probability for that encounter, or meeting, is 1 in 12.3 million.

Cooke, Bill. (2006) Fatal attraction. "Astronomy", May 2006, 46-51.

These sources are updated as new orbital data becomes available:






</doc>
<doc id="58933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58933" title="Dance music">
Dance music

Dance music is music that is made to be danced to. In a broader sense, an enormous amount of music sounds like dance music, even if it is not composed for dancing. The history of dance music is similar to the history of dance as well as to the history of music.

Dance music was probably the first kind of music there was. Thousands of years ago human beings must have discovered the joy of making noises by beating sticks in rhythm. They probably danced as they did this.

We know that the Ancient Greeks danced to music, although we do not know much about what that music was like.

In the Dark Ages (before the Middle Ages) dancing was very popular. The Christian Church thought that dancing was bad because it was always linked to the devil. This is why the church people thought that musical instruments were bad, because instruments were used for dancing.

The earliest Western dance music that we know are some of the medieval dances such as caroles and the Estampie. Composers started to write their music down on music staves. Dance music had to have a regular beat so that the dancers could dance in time. This is why barlines were invented. The music was divided into bars with a particular number of beats in each bar. This was different from church music which was based on plainchant which was very free in the way it was sung.

In the Baroque period many composers started to write pieces of music which were based on dance rhythms. Composers such as Johann Sebastian Bach wrote suites which were collections of dance movements. The most popular dances in a suite were: allemande, courante, sarabande, minuet and gigue. Even when not writing dance movements, a lot of Baroque music is based on dance rhythms, for example: the grand opening chorus of Bach’s "St Matthew Passion" is based on the rhythm of a sicilienne.

In the Classical music period composers wrote a lot of symphonies and string quartets. They had four movements. The third was normally a minuet, although it was not for dancing to. Composers such as Mozart and Schubert also wrote a lot of music which was for dancing or easy listening. This was the popular music of its time.

In the Romantic era the waltz became popular. Many waltzes were written to be danced to, but other composers simply wrote music (especially piano music) called “waltz”. Chopin wrote piano pieces called after several kinds of dance: waltz, polonaise, mazurka etc. Ballet had become very popular. There was a lot of dance music in operas, especially in French operas.

In the 20th century “dance music” was often thought of as meaning: music played by dance bands. This kind of music developed into rock and roll in the 1960s. Nowadays there is a wide variety of popular dance music, including hip hop. Spanish or Latin American dances such as the samba, tango and cha cha cha are popular all over the world. Towards the end of the 20th century, a form of dance music known as electronic dance music (EDM) arose. This is electronic music which is made in a specific way as to be danced to, usually in the setting of a nightclub, discothèque or a party. Genres of EDM include post-disco, techno, house and trance, amongst several others. 


</doc>
<doc id="58934" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58934" title="Baruch Spinoza">
Baruch Spinoza

Baruch Spinoza (November 24, 1632 – February 21, 1677) was a Dutch philosopher of Portuguese Jewish origin. He is considered to be one of the great Rationalist philosophers of the 17th century. Other famous rationalists include Gottfried Leibniz and René Descartes.

Spinoza's ideas were not cherished by the Jewish community of the time, and Spinoza was excommunicated in 1656.

An important idea in Spinoza's philosophy is God and Nature (everything that exists) are the same thing. Opposing Dualism, Spinoza said that the body and the mind (soul) are two of God's infinite attributes. 

There is no good or evil in Nature, and that these words only have meanings for human beings. For a person, an event that leads to happiness is good, and an event that leads to suffering is bad. 

Spinoza describes two types of thoughts, or emotions:


The goal of every person is to intellectually love God (that is, understand Nature as much as humanly possible).


</doc>
<doc id="58936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58936" title="Rationalism">
Rationalism

Rationalism is a branch of philosophy where the validity of an idea is determined by logic, rather than religious means such as revelations, meditation, emotions or observations.

Rationalist philosophers believe that all knowledge can be understood through a process of reasoning, without any external sources. They do not believe that human beings can understand everything this way, but that it is theoretically possible. Rationalist philosophers attempt to understand ideas like God and the Soul in this manner.

The first people to talk about rationalism were Marin Mersenne and René Descartes, in the 17th and 18th centuries. Other philosophers who are seen as rationalist today include Baruch Spinoza, Gottfried Leibniz and Immanuel Kant. Famous people opposed to this idea were David Hume and John Locke.

Rationalism also influenced natural law. Natural law is a theory that says that there are laws given by nature, valid everywhere. Deism was also influenced by rationalism. According to deism, a supreme being created the universe. This being, and other religious truths can be determined by observing nature, and finding natural laws. This would make religions that are based on revelation unnecessary.


</doc>
<doc id="58943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58943" title="List of Universal Pictures movies">
List of Universal Pictures movies

This is a list of films produced by Universal Pictures. 













</doc>
<doc id="58951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58951" title="2029">
2029

2029 (MMXXIX) will be a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar. It will be the last year of the 2020s decade.









</doc>
<doc id="58953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58953" title="Elephants Dream">
Elephants Dream

Elephants Dream is a short movie made using mostly open source software. Blender was the main program used to make the movie. It began production in September 2005 and was released on March 24, 2006. It was first developed under the name "Orange", then later changed to "Machina" then finally to "Elephants Dream" since the people working on the movie could not decide how "Machina" would be pronounced. The movie is 11 minutes long.

The movie has a very random and abstract nature. Despite the film's title, "Elephants Dream" does not have any elephants or dreams. It instead has Proog and Emo in a extremely bizarre construction referred to only as "the machine." Proog tries to introduce Emo to its nature, but Emo is reluctant (If a person is reluctant to do something, he/she does not want to do it.) and argues about its purpose.
Bassam Kurdali, Director of Elephants Dream, explained the plot of the movie by saying:

"The story is very simple- I'm not sure you can call it a complete story even- It is about how people create ideas/stories/fictions/social realities and communicate them or impose them on others. Thus Proog has created (in his head) the concept of a special place/machine, that he tries to "show" to Emo. When Emo does not accept his story, Proog becomes desperate and hits him. It's a parable of human relationships really- You can substitute many ideas (money, religion, social institutions, property) instead of Proog's machine - the story does not say that creating ideas is bad, just hints that it is better to share ideas than force them on others. There are lots of little clues/hints about this in the movie- many little things have a meaning- but we are not very "tight" with it, because we are hoping people will have their own ideas about the story, and make a new version of the movie. In this way (and others) we tie the story of the movie with the "open movie" idea." 

Ton Roosendaal announced the film in May 2005. He is the chairman of the Blender Foundation. The Blender Foundation and the Netherlands Media Art Institute funded the project. The Foundation raised a lot of their funds by selling pre-orders of the DVD. Everyone who preordered before September 1 has his or her name listed in the film's credits. The film was released for download on the Official Orange Project website on May 18, 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="58955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58955" title="Chapel Royal">
Chapel Royal

The Chapel Royal is a department of the monarch's household in the United Kingdom. Second, the term is often used for Royal Chapels (Chapels Royal, from the French). These are churches under the monarch's direct rule.

Incorrectly, the term is also used for the choirs of these chapels. The correct name for these choirs is the "Children of the Chapel". They are a group of priests and singers who sing church services for the British monarch (king or queen). It is an old tradition. 

Today there are two Chapels Royal at St James’s Palace, near Buckingham Palace in London. These chapels do not belong to the diocese (group of churches in a district). That is why they are called “royal peculiars” (“peculiar” in this sense does not mean “strange” but “special”). Services are held every Sunday except during August and September. Members of the public are welcome to go to these services. This is the only time that the public can go into the royal chapels. The choir also sing at special services, including one held every year on 6 January to celebrate Epiphany when offerings of gold, francinsence and myrrh are made on behalf of the queen.

The Chapel Royal dates back to the late 13th century. At that time the priests and choir travelled with the king wherever he went.

In the 17th century the chapel had its own building in Whitehall, which burned down in 1698. Since 1702 it has been based in St. James's Palace.

In the 16th and 17th centuries the choir was the best choir in England. William Byrd and Thomas Tallis were both organists there during the reign of Elizabeth I. Boy choristers from choirs outside London were sometimes made to join the Chapel Royal if they had beautiful voices. These boys also took part in plays at the king or queen’s court. Charles II liked musical instruments, so the choir were often joined by violins, lutes and viols. The men in the choir were called “Gentlemen of the Chapel Royal”.

Some very famous composers were organists at the Chapel Royal. These include: Thomas Tallis (c.1545-85), William Byrd (c.1572-c.1618), John Bull (1591-1613), Orlando Gibbons (1605-25), John Blow (1673/4-1708), Henry Purcell (1682-95), Jeremiah Clarke (1704-1707), William Croft (1708-27), and George Frideric Handel organist from (1723-59). At the time Handel was appointed he was still German, not English, so he was not allowed to be a member. Instead, he was given a special title: "Composer of Musick of His Majesty's Chappel Royal".

Today the Choir rehearses twice weekly at St James's Palace. The choir consists of six Gentlemen-in-Ordinary who are professional singers, and ten boys who have scholarships to go to the City of London School where they are called Queen's Scholars. 

The composer Sir Peter Maxwell Davies, who is Master of the Queen's Music, works closely with the Chapel Royal. He wants to compose a new carol for them every Christmas.

The head of the Chapel Royal in Scotland is a Dean. Another Chapel Royal once existed in Ireland. 




</doc>
<doc id="58956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58956" title="Orlando Gibbons">
Orlando Gibbons

Orlando Gibbons (born: Oxford, baptised 25 December 1583; died Canterbury, 5 June 1625) was an English composer and organist. He was one of the most important composers of his day. He is famous for his church music and organ music. He lived in the late Tudor and early Jacobean periods.

Gibbons was born in Oxford where his father was a city wait. The family moved to Cambridge and his brother Edward, who was 15 years older than Orlando, became Master of the Choristers at King’s College. Between 1596 and 1598 Orlando sang in the choir of King's College, Cambridge where his brother was master. He entered the university in 1598 and got the degree of Bachelor of Music in 1606. He married and had seven children.

James I made him a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal, where he was organist from at least 1615 until his death. In 1625 he became senior organist at the Chapel Royal, with Thomas Tomkins as junior organist. He was also keyboard player (mainly harpsichord) in the privy chamber of the court of Prince Charles (later King Charles I), and organist at Westminster Abbey. He died an early death in Canterbury of apoplexy, and a monument to him was built in Canterbury Cathedral.

Gibbons wrote a lot of keyboard works, around thirty fantasias for viols, some madrigals (the best-known being "The Silver Swan"), and many popular anthems. He was very good at writing counterpoint as well as lovely melodies. His famous verse anthem "This is the record of John" is often sung by choirs at Advent. It has a lovely solo for a countertenor who takes it in turns with the full chorus. Gibbons wrote two settings of the Evensong service: a long one with several verses, and the "Short" service. His full anthems include "O Lord in thy wrath", and the Palm Sunday setting of "O clap your hands together" for 8 voices.


</doc>
<doc id="58957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58957" title="Category:1583 births">
Category:1583 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1583.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="58958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58958" title="Category:1625 deaths">
Category:1625 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="58960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58960" title="Waits">
Waits

Waits or Waites were British town pipers. From medieval times up to the beginning of the 19th century, every important British town and city had a band of Waites. Some other countries in Europe also had waits. They were called Stadtpfeifer in Germany and Pifferi in Italy.

The duties (things they had to do) varied in different towns and at different times in history. One of their most important jobs was to play at certain times of day so that people knew what the time was. They often played from the top of church towers. Sometimes they were also guards, watching from the towers so that they could spot any danger. They were like watchmen, making sure everything was all right (there was no police at that time). They woke people up in the mornings by playing music in the streets.

The instruments they played also varied. Mostly they were loud wind instruments such as the shawm. It was a paid job. The waits wore smart liveries and silver chains of office with the town's arms.

In Germany the Stadtpfeifer would also play at church services. They would play shawms or trombones on normal days, but trumpets and drums on feast-days.

In Britain there were no more waits after 1835. The name “waits” is still used in “Christmas Waits” (any group of people singing carols at Christmas).


</doc>
<doc id="58961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58961" title="Tennis Court Oath">
Tennis Court Oath

The oath was a pledge signed by 576 members out of 577 of France's Third Estate and a few members of the First Estate on June 20, 1789 in a tennis court near the Palace of Versailles. 

The meeting hall of the Estates General had been locked accidentally, but the Third Estate thought that this was an invasion of their rights, and were very angry with the king. They stood in a nearby indoor tennis court. They swore an oath that they would not move until "the voice of the nation was heard" and their demands were met. They were joined by the nobles and clergy.

The vote had always been taken by class, and usually, the clergy and the nobility voted to support whatever the king wanted, so the vote of the middle class did not matter. The middle class argued that voting should be "by poll" not by order, because they had more representatives than the first two estates combined. They also wanted the Estates General to meet as one body, so that voting would be by poll, rather than by class.

A week later, the king agreed and the Estates General met as the "National Assembly".



</doc>
<doc id="58963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58963" title="Wikipedia:Deletion review/Archive 1">
Wikipedia:Deletion review/Archive 1

I'm asking for the restoration of the article, and the deletion discussion to be re opened for five days. The result did not match the discussion. Best, @:~$ 17:53, 13 April 2011 (UTC)

Closed: . Consensus reached to re-list article, which has been done by . See . 15:44, 30 April 2011 (UTC) 

The page was deleted with the summary "(QD A4: The page does not show notability)", but I fail to see how. The article showed notabiltity and was sourced to a New York Times "What's Online" article. -- () 17:55, 13 January 2011 (UTC)

Didn't give it enough time to simplify...only a couple days, some of which when the article creator was blocked for other reasons. Give it a couple weeks 23:18, 12 August 2010 (UTC)

Intially to my userspace. We need to have "something" on it. I want to start with what we had 22:02, 23 May 2010 (UTC)

The article is a GA on ENGLISH wikipedia, how the hell can that be unotable?? -- () 12:26, 28 April 2010 (UTC)

Hello. I am requesting Hunt Executive Search be undeleted. Much like the pages within the category (executive search) it is a page defining the organization. The organization is notable based on being a top performer in the industry as ranked by external and independent sources (cited in page). Also, it does not promote or solicit business. Please benchmark against the Michael listing within the category - it too is a fact based listing describing the organization and links of news articles and rankings. Thanks - please let us know what we need to do. 
This should never have been undeleted and moved, as it's completely inappropriate for the wiki with the conflict of interest and everything else that has been cited above. Yet more admin incompetance... :| 12:33, 16 January 2010 (UTC) 

 : closed per & not activity for 5 days now 23:21, 10 February 2010 (UTC)

Ok. This time, I am not going down without a fight. I just want to say that even though we are in a completely different scope than the English Wikipedia, they were not harming anything by existing here. Second, all of them are notable, and I can add references for every single one of the rivers that I added to make them even more notable. Thirdly, the deletion was wrong to begin with because a) You did not notify the user who was the main contributor to all of these articles so that he could have his say, and b) your rationales for deleting them go against every policy that Wikipedia has to offer. You don't just mass delete pages just because they are one-line stubs. You keep them as stubs until someone can expand them. The probable reasons as to why there is not much information about them is because there hasn't been much studies done on them. If other countries are allowed to have their river articles here, then Romania should be allowed to as well. Romania just has a further depth of articles about Romania because there have been people that cared enough about Romania to add them in the first place. I don't care if the consensus at the time was to delete, they never harmed the Wikipedia in the first place by existing, and now that they are all deleted, that was the harm done to this project. 04:13, 5 February 2010 (UTC)


To be quite honest I have no objections for the reasons he deleted it, just the way he went about it, considering how long my story had been on my userpage (2 years+) I think NonvocalScream should have put it through a RfD instead, So Here we are. I would like this story restored as it had been here for, like I said, 2 years+ without objection, some people have even said they liked it there. Please restore it. If it's not at least it got it's discussion about it's existence on here and I can be happy knowing it got it's fair chance.--     06:37, 9 March 2010 (UTC)

We've started an AfD basically, if people don't want to undelete it take that as the "yes it should stay deleted" deal. No reason to go through TWO process. The QD thing is a different deal at this point, unfortunate but done. I would recommend leaving that at least for now because more drama is NOT what anyone needs right now. Oh and Lauryn knowing policy "because your an admin" is a bad argument ;) if I had a penny for every admin action I've seen that made no sense policy whys... (talking about many wiks here). " ( )" 07:16, 9 March 2010 (UTC) 

Shouldn't have been here to begin with so my position is stay deleted. - () 13:12, 9 March 2010 (UTC)


This page in my userspace, was the Delete vote template. Now, I knew of the consensus to redirect the original location to but this page was my userspace and was not vandalism so from what I understand it needs to at least go through a RfD to be deleted, yet proceeded to delete it as "Recreation of deleted content, see " anyway. I request it be restored as it was in my userspace. See my for the message he left me after he deleted it and his reply after I asked him to restore it.--     01:19, 15 November 2009 (UTC)

 No consensus to undelete. ··· () 00:04, 29 December 2009 (UTC)

It was deleted just this day. It had 96 revisions, much hard work was done on the article. It was DYK and a GA nominee and then it was deleted suddenly because it was to similar to the English version. It was a great article, and everybody agreed, but because it was to similar to the English version it was deleted. I think this is arguabley the best article over here that has ever been deleted for such futile reasons. It could have easily been rewritten (which I would love to do) if only someone would un-delete it. I do not want to re-create it - then I would probably lose the last version. So please undelete it so that I can completely re-write it. Thanks in advance, () 14:15, 13 June 2009 (UTC)
Thank you. That would be a fine solution. I'll go re-write it within a couple of days: I am currently very busy with other work. I appreciate this. () 14:18, 13 June 2009 (UTC)

Did the administrator delete this notable spoken word band by mistake? There is a British rock band East of Eden (the band) no longer in existence with 0 views in April 2009 compared to over 200 views by the spoken word band called East of Eden Band. There is a new CD played on online radio internationally. Is this a case of an unknowledgeable new administrator usng personal bias against non-rock music. There was not talk or discussion about the deletion that I could find. Discussion about the return of the article is important. Disambiguation makes no sense without two terms, and the administrator did not clear up any of the residual confusion with the hasty delete. How are administrators qualified to make delete decisions if they know nothing about a field? 

It was referenced, I have the book right here in front of me. Who is this rambling man and where is the article I made? () 14:55, 30 March 2009 (UTC)
This cat's RFD was just closed but I don't think it should have been deleted, if it were any other thing I'd probably move on. Now my point is if you click on said category you still get the list that have that category as a red link, so it's still serving the purpose it was created to do in the first place, which made the deletion moot, and I for one will not remove it from my userpage cause it's deleted. Now seeing as it's still serving as a deleted category, I say we recreate or restore it till at least the discussion on simple talk concludes. Thank you.--     20:20, 8 April 2009 (UTC) 


This article was deleted under A4 without having been at RFD before, meaning the A4 criteria had not been met. The article was referenced and illustrated, if only still a stub. I would like to either see this undeleted or undeleted and sent to RFD. Thanks () 19:11, 27 March 2009 (UTC)

This was deleted without proper means. It was restored promptly. The deleting administrator then proceeded to delete and salt the article, claiming an apparently non-existent consensus. To undo would be wheel-warring, so a formal discussion is needed. I will post a diff of the article as it stood before deletion.  () 19:57, 27 March 2009 (UTC)

I've brought up the user in question as desysop because of his actions. They are not what I want to see from an administrator. This article was fine for this site before it was deleted and salted. 20:00, 27 March 2009 (UTC)


I think this turned into a vote counting scenerio, as the !votes are almost even and there is no strong arguement to delete. The best argument probably comes from Eptalon who didn't actually !vote either way. At worst this should have been closed as no-consensus for the two provincial categories or left open for more discussion. The city one I have no problem with being deleted. - () 13:53, 23 April 2009 (UTC)

I had started an article entitled ServeJesusForReal.com; it was not finished, and was to be an article contrasting the current day's worship practices with what was actually intended by Jesus Himself, and ServeJesusForReal's part in this. 

Restore: I would like to request that the page for "Electronic Cigarette" be undeleted. It was decided to port the definition for electronic cigarette to the page describing NRT but this is incorrect as the World Health Organisation has issued a press listed requesting that electronic cigarette devices should not be described as an NRT's as there have been no recognised tests or studies completed to back-up these claims.

anyone now searching for electronic cigarette is directed to a page listed as "E-cigarette".While the terms "e-cigarette" and "e-cig" are popular terms used to in place of "electronic cigarette" on account of their brevity, they are in fact claimed to be trade-marks registered to Cixi E-cig, one manufacturer of electronic cigarettes of many in China, though it might be the case that their trademarks have become a victim of "genericide". I would like to request that the page listed as "e-cigarette" is changed to "electronic cigarette", the umbrella term for all of these devices. () 18:14, 24 November 2008 (UTC)

Although they might serve a purpose to some users as an NRT, they were first invented by Ruyan as a smoking alternative to allow smokers to "smoke" where there are restrictions in place to prevent them from doing so. The Chinese name Ruyan loosly translates into english as "smoke anywhere". They were never intended to act as an NRT although some traders decided to market clones of Ruyan's initial invention as smoking cessation devices. to quote the World Health Organisation:
19 September 2008 | GENEVA -- Contrary to what some marketers of the electronic cigarette imply in their advertisements, the World Health Organization (WHO) does not consider it to be a legitimate therapy for smokers trying to quit.

"The electronic cigarette is not a proven nicotine replacement therapy," said Dr Ala Alwan, Assistant Director-General of WHO's Noncommunicable Diseases and Mental Health Cluster. "WHO has no scientific evidence to confirm the product's safety and efficacy. Its marketers should immediately remove from their web sites and other informational materials any suggestion that WHO considers it to be a safe and effective smoking cessation aid."

In order for a product to be classed as an NRT, they must undergo a series of clinical studies. No electronic cigarette has undergone these studies. They are not an NRT as they cannot be classed as such. They are correctly described as an alternative to tobacco. They are not under the jurisdiction of the FDA in america. They are not under the jurisdiction of the ATF. () 18:14, 24 November 2008 (UTC)

RESTORE-Hello there Eptalon. Your references are not relevant to the discussion. Directive 83 [7] does not regulate or classify nicotine or tobacco, or deal with NRT, and those substances are only even mentioned in the context of possible interactions with prescription medicines, and neither cigarettes nor electronic cigarettes are mentioned at all. It is totally irrelevant to the question of whether e-cigarettes are a form of NRT. Your study on NRT effectiveness [8] does not include any data on, or even mention, electronic cigarettes, AND effectiveness is itself irrelevant to whether or not something even IS NRT. So, that's doubly irellevant. Electronic cigarettes are a nicotine delivery method, an alternative to cigarettes, more similar to a herbal vaporizer than to a quit smoking device. They are not NRT.- Leaford

Electronic cigarettes are not NRT in the same way snus and snuff are not NRT, they are tobacco alternatives. In order to qualify as NRT a device or drug has to be medically trialled and approved. The WHO have clearly stated that electronic cigarettes do not meet this criteria. The EU has not classified electronic cigarettes as NRT either and in the UK it is forbidden to sell these devices as smoking cessation/NRT because they are not approved. They are unproven, untested and unregulated; passing them off as NRT implies they are known to be safe and medically recommended, which they are not. ...
Kate

In fact the Ruyan electronic cigarette has been tested by Health NEW ZEALAND Ltd; Research and policy advice to reduce heart disease, cancer and smoking; Dr Murray Laugesen, QSO, MBChB, FAFPHM, FRCS, Dip Obst; Managing Director. The study was paid for by Ruyan, but, by 'no influence' contract. http://healthnz.co.nz/RuyanCartridgeReport21-Oct-08.pdf -- "this report’s overall conclusion that the Ruyan® e-cigarette is designed to be a safe alternative to smoking, and appears to be safe in absolute terms on all measurements we have applied." and "Lacking any active ingredient or any gaseous products of combustion, the PG mist or ‘smoke’ is not harmful to bystanders." ... I vote for undeletion of 'electronic cigarette' ( is saying so here proper etiquette procedure ? if not I appologize ) - steve h. () 20:30, 25 November 2008 (UTC)

Just to be absolutely clear - I vote FOR Restore 'electronic cigarette' () 20:34, 25 November 2008 (UTC)

I would also like to add that in tandem with the page for electronic cigarette being undeleted, the information which is now on the page for e-cigarette should be ported to the page for electronic cigarette because as i have mentioned "e-cigarette" is actually claimed as a trademark by cix e-cig group even though it is commonly used in place of electronic cigarette. () 00:55, 27 November 2008 (UTC)

I am courteously requesting that we restore the article about Carolyn Doran. She is notable in that her saga throughout the 1990's and up to 2007 was written about -- independently -- by The Register, the Tampa Tribune, and the Associated Press (which was republished by the Washington Post, ABC News, and the San Jose Mercury News. Numerous blogs commented on this person, and Wikipedia co-founder and Chairman Emeritus Jimmy Wales commented publicly and substantially about this living person. Exclusion of a Simple English article about this person carries with it an unseemly taint of self-protecting project POV. Please restore. - () 20:58, 18 February 2008 (UTC)


Result:Leave deleted 11:58, 16 March 2008 (UTC)

Milw0rm Deletion - Sept 16 and again on Sept 24.
The reason for speedy deletion was quoted by KnowledgeOfSelf and Kingboyk as a CSD A7 "(Group): Article about a club or group that does not assert significance." I find this ironic because it appears that the people who deleted it must not have read the article? The hacking of a nuclear facility in India for the purpose of deterring Nuclear Weapons development is a HUGE story, and will be for years to come. This group is very significant as they were some of the founders that brought HACTIVISM to the front lines. Some individuals put a lot of time and effort into obtaining and posting this information, it's not like it's easy to come by... The google cache to the original article is here 

If I nominate an article for deletion, many vote delete, others vote keep, and then makes a great point. I decide to take it off for deletion. If I regret nominating it for deletion, the result should be keep, right? The dispute should be over. Apparently, not so. This is what happened when the article Amasebail was deleted. had to continue the dispute, put it up for deletion, when I regretted an action that I made. The deletion resulted in delete. I did not want this, because Blockinblox made a good point. He said that he believed an encyclopædia should have no limits for what cities, towns, villages, hamlets, or communities should have entries there. No limits on how big, notable, or widely commercialised the cities are, is what Blockinblox meant. So, he made a good point, I retracted and regretted the nomination. Tygart had to bring it up. I felt so strongly about this, I had to use a test account to sockpuppeteer in a deletion vote. I used . This caused great controversy. So, I hereby contest the deletion of this article and I encourage others to vote here too. Keep or delete, please vote. 19:52, 26 August 2007 (UTC)




Your notability "guidelines" are silly, and have no place in a real encyclopædia. Deletionism is not "creating an open-source inclusive encyclopædia. Get serious, people. I am sorry to be so rude and/or blunt, but it is pathetic that people ponder over whether something is notablewhen we're trying to build an encyclopædia here, and only in should we delete articles. Actually, the problem there was not notability anyway, but he requested multiple times to have it deleted. This is not one such special case, BLP or BDP here does not matter, nor does notability. 02:11, 29 August 2007 (UTC)


I posted a page about Redwood Creek Wines last week and the page was deleted within one day with the reasoning being "blatant advertising." I was just wondering how to edit the copy so that the page is not deleted again. We have posted pages in the past 
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E._%26_J._Gallo_Winery being one) and I was wondering how these pages are any different from the one I posted about Redwood Creek. This is an urgent business matter and I really appreciate your timely feedback. My email address is mengel@hunterpr.com or you could reach me at directly at 212 679 6600 ext 266. Thank you, Meredith Engel

 - inappropriately deleted. -- 12:42, 25 February 2007 (UTC)


 and were inappropriately deleted and they should be restored so that they can be listed on and so people have the opportunity to improve the article so it conforms to Simple English Wikipedia's standards. 17:11, 15 January 2007 (UTC)
I am nominating the abovvementioned article for undeletion. The article was deleted for 'unsiimplified en-wiki copy and paste' by Tygarrt11. I did simplify this article, change a whole section from a complex list among other work. I try my hardest to not breach policy,there is no set of words that can be used(or must), and it was simplifyed! I am at least that this is restored to my userspace so I can work on it. -- 21:17, 20 September 2007 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="58968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58968" title="Template:MAGovernors">
Template:MAGovernors

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58969" title="Template:Navbox generic">
Template:Navbox generic


</doc>
<doc id="58970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58970" title="Template:Navbox generic/doc">
Template:Navbox generic/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
This template allows a navigational template to be set up relatively quickly by supplying it one or more lists of links.

Deprecated (but still functional) parameter names given in parentheses before each description.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58971" title="Chart">
Chart

A chart or graph is an image which summarizes data and presents it in an easy to understand way. Charts are often used to make it easier to understand the relationships of different aspects of the data. It is easier to read a chart than the raw data.



</doc>
<doc id="58972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58972" title="Template:Template doc page transcluded/doc">
Template:Template doc page transcluded/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

Place at the top of a page (usually a "Template:"Template name"/doc" page) that is on the template's own page (Template:"Template name"). If the documentation page is not named "doc" and/or its transclusion is via another subpage (e.g. "Template:"Template name"/example"), use the second form of syntax above and replace "pagename" accordingly.



<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58973" title="Samuel Adams">
Samuel Adams

Samuel Adams (September27 (OS), 1722–October 2, 1803) was an American leader, politician, writer, and political philosopher, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. Adams helped gather support in the American colonies to rebel against Great Britain. This led to the American Revolution. Adams was one of the key makers of the principles of American politics.

Adams, born and raised in Boston, Massachusetts, was brought up in a religious family. He was educated at Boston Latin School and Harvard College. He started his life as a businessman, but did not like his occupation. He then turned his interest to politics, and became an influential political writer. Adams urged the colonists to withdraw from Great Britain and form a new government. He told the colonies to defend their rights and liberties at town meetings in Boston. He wrote protests against Parliament's taxes against the colonies, such as the Stamp Act of 1765. Adams also organized the Boston Tea Party in 1773 and he was a member of the Continental Congress. He also fought for the Declaration of Independence at the Second Continental Congress in 1776.

Adams helped write the Massachusetts Constitution with James Bowdoin and his cousin John Adams. Later, Adams helped draft the Articles of Confederation. After the Revolutionary War ended, he ran for the House of Representatives in the 1st United States Congressional election. He lost the election to Fisher Ames. He was elected Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts in 1789. After John Hancock's death in 1793, Adams served as the acting governor. He was then elected governor in January of 1794. He served in that position until June 1797. He then retired from politics and settled in his home in Boston. He died six years later on October 2, 1803.

Many of the foremost works on Adams' life are from the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Much of the information in more recent biographies is attributed to these earlier works.
kjk



</doc>
<doc id="58974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58974" title="Template:Nobold">
Template:Nobold

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58976" title="Bar chart">
Bar chart

A bar chart is a type of chart which shows the values of different categories of data as rectangular bars with different lengths. A histogram is a bar chart that shows how data is spread over its categories.


</doc>
<doc id="58977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58977" title="Category:Charts">
Category:Charts

A chart is a visual presentation of data.


</doc>
<doc id="58978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58978" title="Template:Template doc inline">
Template:Template doc inline

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58979" title="Template:Template doc inline/doc">
Template:Template doc inline/doc

This template displays a "Template documentation" box like you are seeing now.

It is primarily used by to automatically display the documentation for the template from a /doc subpage, but can also be used to display inline documentation.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58980" title="Template:Tlx">
Template:Tlx

<includeonly><nowiki></nowiki></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58981" title="Template:Tlx/doc">
Template:Tlx/doc

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

Purpose and naming: 'Template list expanded'... after Template list' 







is a generalization of , ,
et cetera with arguably better readable
output. This depends on the browser, but too narrow
uses of "{", "|", "}" in conjunction
with links can be hard to read.


<includeonly> 

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58982" title="Template:Nobold/doc">
Template:Nobold/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
To display some text ("text-string") at normal font-weight within a context where the default font-weight is bold, e.g. header cells in tables.
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58983" title="Pie chart">
Pie chart

A pie chart is a type of chart with the shape of a pie or circle. It presents the relationship of different parts of the data. One would easily see the biggest or smallest share of the total data, by simply looking at the pie chart.

Pie charts should be used only when the sum of all categories is meaningful, for example if they represent proportions.

Pie charts are rare in scientific writing. They are more common in business and economics. One reason for this may be that it is more to compare the size of items in a chart when area is used instead of length. Stevens' power law says that it is harder to see small differences using visual area than when using length. This means that length is a better scale to use, because differences can be found out easier.

This can be shown with the image to the right. The pie chart and the bar chart have the same data. Most people have difficulty putting the slices in the pie chart in order by size from biggest to smallest. When using the bar chart, it is much easier to tell the difference between bars that are very similar in size. 




</doc>
<doc id="58984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58984" title="Category:Template documentation">
Category:Template documentation

This category lists template documentation pages.


</doc>
<doc id="58985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58985" title="Category:Template namespace templates">
Category:Template namespace templates


</doc>
<doc id="58987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58987" title="Template:Sample">
Template:Sample

[This is the sample template. The actual template that gets substed or transcluded can go here (whether or not there is an includeonly section), without the square brackets, but it may clutter up the display of the template.]<includeonly>[This the includeonly portion of the sample template. The actual portion of the template that gets substed or transcluded can go here, without the square brackets, and it is not displayed on the template.]<br> should not be used for this template.</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58988" title="Template:Sample/doc">
Template:Sample/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

=Documentation=

The template shows people sample results of the correct use of the <nowiki></nowiki> template. Please replace this information with how your template works.

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58990" title="Wikipedia:Template documentation">
Wikipedia:Template documentation


</doc>
<doc id="58992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58992" title="Template:CongBio2">
Template:CongBio2


</doc>
<doc id="58993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58993" title="Template:Bioguide">
Template:Bioguide

"This article incorporates facts obtained from the public domain Biographical Directory of the United States Congress".

</doc>
<doc id="58994" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58994" title="Template:CongBio">
Template:CongBio


</doc>
<doc id="58995" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58995" title="Category:Legislative branch of the United States government">
Category:Legislative branch of the United States government


</doc>
<doc id="58996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58996" title="Template:USCongress">
Template:USCongress


</doc>
<doc id="58997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58997" title="Biographical Directory of the United States Congress">
Biographical Directory of the United States Congress

The Biographical Directory of the United States Congress is a biographical dictionary of all present and former members of the United States Congress. It also includes all members of the Continental Congress. It also includes delegates from territories and the District of Columbia and Resident Commissioners from the Philippines and Puerto Rico.



</doc>
<doc id="58998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58998" title="Template:Tlxc">
Template:Tlxc

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="58999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58999" title="Template:Tlxm">
Template:Tlxm


</doc>
<doc id="59000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59000" title="Template:Tlxw">
Template:Tlxw


</doc>
<doc id="59001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59001" title="Category:Interwiki link templates">
Category:Interwiki link templates

These are templates which link to the English Wikipedia's sister projects (primary rationale), or to other external pages.


</doc>
<doc id="59002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59002" title="Category:Typing-aid templates">
Category:Typing-aid templates

This category is for templates that save time and typing for editors or provide formatting effects like coloration.Templates in this category are used to make interwiki compatible (same text and formating) links and/or have local appearance utility (interjecting extra whitespace), color effects for the HTML non-adept, etc.


</doc>
<doc id="59004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59004" title="Category:Governors of Massachusetts">
Category:Governors of Massachusetts

This category contains governors of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and its colonial predecessors, the Massachusetts Bay Colony and the Province of Massachusetts Bay.
Deval Patrick is the current Governor of Massachusetts.


</doc>
<doc id="59006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59006" title="Category:Massachusetts politicians">
Category:Massachusetts politicians


</doc>
<doc id="59007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59007" title="Category:State governors of the United States">
Category:State governors of the United States

Current Governors, shown in the template, are listed as articles. 
Past Governors should be listed in the appropriate subcategory.


</doc>
<doc id="59008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59008" title="Template:USGovernors">
Template:USGovernors

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="59009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59009" title="Category:United States government navigational boxes">
Category:United States government navigational boxes

This is a collection of Navigation templates.


</doc>
<doc id="59011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59011" title="Template:S-off">
Template:S-off

! colspan="3" style="background: #ccccff;" | Political offices

</doc>
<doc id="59014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59014" title="Category:Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence">
Category:Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence

The main article is United States Declaration of Independence.


</doc>
<doc id="59016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59016" title="Category:American revolutionaries">
Category:American revolutionaries

This is a category of all American Revolutionaries through History.


</doc>
<doc id="59017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59017" title="Teapot">
Teapot

A teapot is a container used to mix tea leaves with boiling water to make tea. Usually the tea leaves are in a tea bag when the tea leaves are put into the water. The tea can be poured from the teapot into cups.




</doc>
<doc id="59021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59021" title="Le Monde">
Le Monde

Le Monde (English:"The World") is a French daily evening newspaper. In 2004, it had a circulation of 371,803 copies. It is amongst the newspapers most read in France. Its political opinion is slightly left-wing. In many countries outside France, this is the only French newspaper available. 

The newspaper should not be confused with the monthly publication "Le Monde diplomatique". "Le Monde" has 51% ownership of the monthly. Despite this, the monthly has a different editorial staff. 

"Le Monde" was founded by Hubert Beuve-Méry. This was at the request of General Charles de Gaulle after the German army was driven from Paris during World War II. The newspaper took over the format of "Le Temps", because the reputation of the latter had suffered during the Occupation. Beuve-Méry reportedly asked for total editorial independence as the condition for his taking on the project. Its first edition appeared on December 19, 1944. "Le Monde" has been available on the Internet since December 19, 1995. It is the principal publication of Groupe Le Monde.


</doc>
<doc id="59024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59024" title="Template:Baseball-reference">
Template:Baseball-reference

Baseball-Reference.com - career statistics and analysis

</doc>
<doc id="59030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59030" title="Begging the question">
Begging the question

Begging the question requires two or more ideas. Each of these ideas may or may not be true. The speaker of these ideas tries to show that one idea is true by saying a second idea proves it, but the second idea is only true if the first idea is true already.

Begging the question is commonly known as circular reasoning, though they are not exactly the same.

Begging the question is a fallacy.


"This begs the question" has recently been used to mean "this raises the question." This usage is often as .


</doc>
<doc id="59053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59053" title="Ciwan Haco">
Ciwan Haco

Ciwan Haco (born 1957) is a Kurdish singer. He was born near Qamishlo in Syria. After finishing high school, he left for Germany in order to continue his studies. He studied music at the University of Bochum for three years. After university, he started his career as a singer. He combined Kurdish folk music with western style pop music, rock, blues, and jazz. He has released 14 albums. He become well-known on the kurdish music scene after he sang for more than 200.000 people in Batman, south Turkey, in 2003. Haco lives in Sweden with his wife. He has two children, Lorin, 7, and Rosa, 5.


</doc>
<doc id="59059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59059" title="Tata Young">
Tata Young

Tata Young (born Amita Marie Young on December 14, 1980 in Thailand) is a Thai-American singer, model and actress. She became a singer when she was 15. Her first album was called "Amita Tata Young" and it was very successful. It sold more than a million copies in less than 5 months. In 2004, she made an English album called "I Believe". It sold many copies and made her famous in other countries as well.

In 2006 she made her second English album called "Temperature Rising", which made her even more popular, especially in Asia. In 2008 Tata Young released a Thai language album called "One Love".

Her next album is expected to be released in April 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="59060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59060" title="Trip">
Trip

Trip has several meanings:

Trip may also be:


</doc>
<doc id="59061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59061" title="Practice">
Practice

Practice or practise (a verb form in British English) is the act of repeating a behavior over and over, or doing an activity again and again. 

It is a way to learn things faster, by repeating them. For example, sport teams practice to prepare for real games, or a musician practices for some hours every day, so he can play perfectly in his concert.

A practice can also mean the way something is done, like in "medical practice".


</doc>
<doc id="59062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59062" title="Stevens' power law">
Stevens' power law

Stevens' power law is a proposed relationship between the magnitude of a physical stimulus and the intensity or strength that people feel. 

Most people think that it describes a wider range of sensations than Weber-Fechner law. But critics argue that the validity of the law is not sure.

The theory is named after psychophysicist Stanley Smith Stevens (1906–1973). Although the idea of a power law had been suggested by 19th century researchers, Stevens is credited with reviving the law and publishing a body of psychophysical data to support it in 1957.

The general form of the law is
where formula_2 is the magnitude of the physical stimulus, formula_3 is the psychophysical function capturing sensation (the subjective size of the stimulus), formula_4 is an exponent that depends on the type of stimulation and formula_5 is a proportionality constant that depends on the type of stimulation and the units used.

The table to the right lists the exponents reported by Stevens.










</doc>
<doc id="59063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59063" title="Stimulus">
Stimulus

Stimulus (plural stimuli) is a change in the environment around a person or thing that can feel the change. It is often used in physiology. Stimulus can include feelings like heat, cold, and pain. When a stimulus is applied to something that can feel it, it causes a reflex. For example, if an animal is burned by touching fire, it will react by quickly moving away from it. Because of this, stimulus can be thought of as something done to an object to make it react. 

When a sensory nerve and a motor nerve communicate with each other, it is called a nerve stimulus.
A stimulus is often the first component of a homeostatic control system.
In psychology, a stimulus is part of the stimulus-response relationship of behavioural learning theory.


</doc>
<doc id="59079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59079" title="Logic gate">
Logic gate

A logic gate is an electronic component that can be used to conduct electricity based on a rule. The output of the gate is the result of applying this rule to one or more "sources". These sources may be two wires or the output of other logic gates. Logic gates are digital components. They normally work at only two levels of voltage, a positive level and a zero level. Commonly they work based on two states: "On" and "Off". In the On state, voltage is present. In the Off state, the voltage is at zero. The On state usually uses a voltage in the range of 3.5 to 5 volts. This range can be lower for some uses. Logic gates compare the state at their inputs (source) to decide what the state at their output should be. A logic gate is "on" or active when its rules are correctly met. At this time, electricity is flowing through the gate and the voltage at its output is at the level of its On state. Logic gates are electronic versions of Boolean logic.

With an AND gate, both inputs must be at an On state for the output to be On. Using the image at the right, if "A" and "B" are both in an On state, the output (out) will be an On state. If either "A" or "B" is in an Off state, the output will also be in an Off state. "A" and "B" must be On for the output to be On. 

With an OR gate, if either input in On, the output will be On. Using the image at the right, if either "A" or "B" is On, the output ("out") will also be On. If both "A" and "B" are Off, the output will be Off. 
The NOT logic gate simply changes the signal from On to Off or from Off to On. 


</doc>
<doc id="59088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59088" title="Category:1677 deaths">
Category:1677 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="59089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59089" title="Category:1319 deaths">
Category:1319 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="59091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59091" title="Category:1319">
Category:1319


</doc>
<doc id="59108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59108" title="Category:Antarctica">
Category:Antarctica

Antarctica is a continent surrounding the Earth's South Pole. It is the coldest place on earth and is almost entirely covered by ice. It is not to be confused with the Arctic, which is located near the Earth's North Pole.


</doc>
<doc id="59111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59111" title="Plaza Mayor of Madrid">
Plaza Mayor of Madrid

The Plaza Mayor of Madrid was built in the 1400's on the same location as the old Plaza del Arrabal (square outside the walls). It was used as a market in the Middle Ages. It is also called the Plaza de la Constitución.

In the 1560s, King Philip II and his architect, Juan de Herrera planned to change it into a proper square for the Courts. The first part to be finished was the Casa de la Panaderia (bakery) in 1590. Gómez de Mora gave it the rectangular form. The ground is still cobbled. It finally opened in 1620 under the rule of King Philip III.

The statue in the middle is King Philip III on horseback made by Juan de Bologna. The statue was moved from the Casa de Campo to the Plaza Mayor in 1848.

In the 1700's, it was used for the crowning of kings, bullfights, carnivals and even executions. People watched from the balconies around the square. 

The Plaza has been damaged by three fires. Juan de Villanova had the plaza built again in 1853 and that is what is seen today. People can enter the plaza through nine different arches.



</doc>
<doc id="59114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59114" title="Gran Vía">
Gran Vía

The Gran Vía (The Great Way) is one of the most important shopping areas in Madrid, Spain. It also has hotels and large movie theaters.

Many of the buildings on the Gran Vía are decorated with fancy sculptures. One of the more impressive buildings on the Gran Vía is the Edificio Metropolis. It was built in 1907 by Jules and Raymond Février. It has a statue of the winged Roman goddess, Victoria, on the top. Madrid's first skyscraper, Telefonica's Head Office, is also on the Gran Vía.

The Gran Vía was planned in the 1850s. They did not start building the road until 1904 and finished it in 1929. People laughed at the plan because it took so long to get started. As a joke, they called it the 'gran vía' or 'great road'.



</doc>
<doc id="59119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59119" title="Cibeles">
Cibeles

Cibeles is the name given to the marble fountain found in the Plaza de Cibeles (Cibele's Square) on the Paseo de la Castellana. It is on a very busy road crossing. The statue was made by Ventura Rodriguez. King Carlos III asked to have it made in 1716. It has changed several times. It was moved to the central position in 1895.

The lady is the Goddess of Fertility. She sits on a chariot pulled by lions. The lions' names are Hippomenes and Atalanta. They were people that the goddess turned into lions because they ruined her temple. The lions were made by Robert Michel. 


</doc>
<doc id="59120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59120" title="Puerta del Sol">
Puerta del Sol

The Puerta del Sol ("Sun Gate") is known as 'Spain's belly button'. In the 1400's, it was the gate or entrance of the east side of the city. Since the sun rises in the east, it got the name Puerta del Sol. It is now the center of 'kilometer 0' of Madrid. All roads are measured from this point.

It was rebuilt in 1854. The statue of King Carlos III is in the middle of the square. The red brick building there is the former post office. The famous Oso y el Madroño (bear eating madroños) statue can also be found here. The Puerta del Sol is also famous for its New Year's celebration which has been broadcast on television since December 31, 1962.


</doc>
<doc id="59121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59121" title="Royal Palace of Madrid">
Royal Palace of Madrid

The Palacio Real de Madrid (Royal Palace of Madrid) is the official home of the King of Spain. It is located in Madrid, Spain. It is one of the largest palaces in western Europe. With a surface of 135,000 km2 and 2,800 rooms, is the biggest royal palace in the whole of Europe.

King Felipe V had the palace built to replace the Alcazar that was burned down. It is made of limestone and granite. It was supposed to look a little like the Versailles Palace in Paris, France. Juan Bautista Sachetti was in charge of building the palace. They started to build it in 1738. King Carlos III moved into the palace in 1764. It took a hundred years to decorate all the rooms.

Spanish kings lived there until 1931 when King Alfonso XIII was forced to leave Spain. The Royal Palace is still used for special ceremonies. Letizia was supposed to walk on a red carpet from the Royal Palace to the cathedral for the wedding with Prince Felipe but it rained so she was taken in car.

Fifty of the rooms in the palace are open for public visits. Visitors enter the palace from the Plaza de la Armería. Some of the rooms that can be seen are: the 'porcelain' room, 'throne' room and 'clock' room. There is a royal army museum in the palace.


</doc>
<doc id="59122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59122" title="Puerta de Alcalá">
Puerta de Alcalá

The Puerta de Alcalá (Alcalá Gate) is a monument in the Plaza de la Independencia ("Independence Square") in Madrid, Spain. Francisco Sabatini created the monument in 1778 for Carlos III when he arrived in Madrid. It is the gateway to the Court. It is built of granite and limestone. It has three big arches that have lion's heads on top made by Robert Michel. There are two smaller arches on the sides. At the very top of the monument, there are angels, trophies and the coat of arms which were all made by Francisco Gutiérrez.



</doc>
<doc id="59125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59125" title="Plaza">
Plaza

Plaza is a Spanish word related to "field" which describes an open public space in a city, such as a city square. In Spanish America, the plaza mayor of each city had three things: the cathedral, the "cabildo" or administrative center, and the "audiencia" or law court. The plaza might be large enough to serve as a military parade ground. At times of crisis or fiesta, it was a space where many people could be together at once. Similar to Italian piazzas, plazas are still a center of community life, like the market-place.

Most colonial cities in Spanish America were planned around a square "plaza de armas", where troops could gather.

A "plaza de toros" is a bullring.

The first shopping center in the United States, opened in Kansas City, Missouri in 1922, was called "Country Club Plaza" and had Spanish-style architectural details. More recently, "plaza" has been used to describe a shopping center, similar to a shopping mall. Calling a shopping center a "plaza" is to give the idea of a center of cultural life. 



</doc>
<doc id="59126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59126" title="Transduction (physiology)">
Transduction (physiology)

In physiology, transduction is the or change of a stimulus from one form to another. 

Transduction in the nervous system typically means synaptic events where an electrical signal is converted into a chemical one by the release of neurotransmitters. 

In sensory transduction a chemical or physical stimulus is transduced by sensory receptors into an electrical signal.

For example, in the visual system, sensory cells called rod and cone cells in the retina change the physical energy of light signals into electrical impulses that travel to the brain. The light causes a change in a protein called rhodopsin. In this example, more light hitting the receptor results in the transduction of a signal into fewer electrical impulses.


</doc>
<doc id="59129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59129" title="Resource">
Resource

Resource has more than one meaning:


</doc>
<doc id="59131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59131" title="Category:Palaces">
Category:Palaces


</doc>
<doc id="59132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59132" title="S.C. Corinthians Paulista">
S.C. Corinthians Paulista

S.C. Corinthians Paulista is a football club which plays in Brazil.

Football (soccer) had already established itself as the popular new sport in Brazil and when the dry season came and the fields dried out they were soon filled with lovers of the new game. São Paulo's sporting elite had formed several clubs,Germânia, Paulistano and Campos Elíseos among them, but access to the game was still largely restricted to the city's well off.

So a group of working class fans - painter and decorators Joaquim Ambrósio, Antônio Pereira and César Nunes; cobbler Rafael Perrone; driver Anselmo Correia; foundry worker; Alexandre Magnani: cook Salvador Lopomo; labourer João da Silva and tailor Antônio Nunes - decided to start their own team. Bataglia decided to get involved he was named the club's first president.

The new club needed a name. Joaquim Ambrósio suggested they call themselves after the Corinthians Casuals Football Club, the famous English team that was then on tour in Brazil. The press and fans in Brazil who were following the tour shortened the English club's name to Corinthian's Team and so the founders did away with the aopstrophe and the club won its elegant name Corinthians.

Corinthians is also known as "Timão", "Coringão", "The Musketeer" and "Champion of the Champions".

Finally, the club picked colours. The club's first strip was beige with black trim and had the distinctive letters "C" and "P" for Corinthians Paulista. However, when the strips were washed, the black bled into the beige. The directors could not afford to keep buying new strips every time the colours ran so they decided to change their colours. They swapped the beige for white. In present-day, the colours of Corinthians are Black and White.

The name of Corinthians´s stadium is Alfredo Schürig, also know as "Little Farm" or "São Jorge Park" and with a capacity crowd of 20,000. Because the size of their fans, Corinthians host their matches at Paulo Machado de Carvalho Stadium, also known as "Pacaembú" (45.000). Corinthians is the second best-supported club in Brazil after Flamengo, with a fan base of approximately 40 million.

The team from Varzea Paulista. Playing away from home in their first match, Corinthians were expected to lose heavily but they showed they were not there just to make up the numbers and they battled hard before narrowly going down by a goal to nil.

The defeat turned out to be a one-off. Four days later, Corinthians proved they would be a name to be reckoned with and beat Estrela Polar 2-0. The honour of scoring the club's first goal went to striker Luís Fabi, who wrote himself into the history books by grabbing the opener. They followed the match with an unbeaten streak that lasted two years.

They then won 1-0 away at Minas Gerais and then beat São Paulo do Bexiga 4-0 at home. They had secured their place in the big league.

Things got even better the following year and in 1914 a dynasty took hold. In just their second Paulista Championship, Corinthians destroyed the competition and won all 10 games, scoring 39 times in the process. Neco ended the tournament's top goalscorer with 12 goals.

Corinthians picked up yet another Paulista Championship in 1922 but this victory had something special about it. The winner took the title not only of Paulista Champions but also of Centenary Champions, a title they would hold for at least the next 100 years.

By this time, winning the Paulista was becoming routine. The team won the league three years in a row in 1922, 1923 and 1924 under the command of Neco, the club's first great idol, and would do so again in 1928, 1929 and 1930.

The great and only rival of Corinthians is Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras. This is the most derbie and traditional rivalry in Brazilian football. The fans of Corinthians called Palmeiras as a "pig" and the fans of palmeiras called Corinthians as a "skunk".

However, and between 1931 and 1934 a series of bad results left the team trailing. Corinthians lost to all their big rivals of the time and failed to make an impression in the league, never finishing higher than fourth.

The turnaround came in 1937, and for the rest of the decade there was only one team in the state. Corinthians won the Paulista Championship in 1937, 1938 and 1939 to become the first team ever to win three back-to-back titles three times. Even today, no other team has managed to equal such a feat. The man who led the way was centre-forward Teleco. One of the club's greatest ever goalscorers, he topped the scoring charts in 1937 and 1939. The former year he scored almost half the club's goals, while in the latter he got an amazing 60 percent.

The 100-goal attack made history not only for the club but also for the league. In 1951, a front line made up of Carbone, Cláudio, Luizinho, Baltazar and Mário scored 103 goals in 30 games in the Paulista Championship, an average of 3.43 per game. The title was theirs, as was the trophy for top goalscorer, which went to Carbone, who got 30 of the team's goals.

In the years that followed, more titles were added to the growing trophy room at Parque São Jorge. In 1952, the "Timão" won the Paulista Championship for the second successive year, with Baltazar finishing top scorer. In 1953, they took the Rio-São Paulo title and the Little World Cup - the club's first international title - and in 1954 they walked off with another Rio-São Paulo as well as the Paulista do IV centenário de São Paulo. In 1956 and 1957, they won the "Invencible Trophy", the cup given to the team that went the longest number of games undefeated.

In 1976, Corinthians almost won their first Brazilian League title and the club's fans played a starring role in one of the most memorable moments in footballing history. Corinthians were drawn against Fluminense in the semi-finals of the league play offs at the Maracanã. More than 70,000 Corinthians fans made the six-hour trip up the motorway to Rio de Janeiro in a massive convoy that was christened the "Corinthians Invasion."

Corinthians won the first game but lost the second and so needed to win a third and deciding match to take the title. It was quite a struggle, with the match goalless until the 81st minute. Then, a Zé Maria free kick was directed onto the bar by Vaguinho. Wladimir headed the rebound back towards goal where Oscar was on hand to knock it off the line. The ball fell to Basílio in the area and he hammered it into the net and gave Corinthians the goal they so desperately wanted. The 1977 Paulista Championship was theirs.

The "Timão" was always one of the most important clubs in Brazil. But the Corinthians Democracy movement was unique in world football. Through organisation, team spirit and democracy, they did something no other team has managed before or since. When players as politically and socially conscientious as Sócrates, Wladimir, Casagrande and Zenon get together then there are bound to be changes in the dressing room. Those four stars were the driving force behind the greatest ideological movement in the history of Brazilian football: Corinthians Democracy. And this in the middle of the country's military dictatorship. Corinthians Democracy did something that seemed impossible. Through football, the most popular sport in the country, they got people talking about all sorts of important and relevant questions concerning society, democracy and the end of military rule. In addition to that not inconsiderable feat, they showed that it was possible to create a society in which everyone's opinions are heard and respected and where democracy, through the imposition of the wishes of the majority, could prevail. They won the Paulista Championship in 1982 and 1983, beating city rivals São Paulo both times. In 1982, they battled back after losing the first game 3-2 to take the next two matches 1-0 and 3-1 and lift the trophy. The next year they won again, thanks to a series of brilliant performances from Sócrates. The good doctor scored all the team's goals in the semi-finals against Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras (1-1 and 1-0) as well as in the final against São Paulo Futebol Clube (1-0 and 1-1). His four goals brought the team their 19th Paulista Championship.

The 1990s was to prove a glorious decade for Corinthians, who captured three Brazilian Championships (in 1990 beating São Paulo Futebol Clube, in 1998 beating Cruzeiro and in 1999 led the championship since the beginning at the finished and beating Atlético Mineiro at the final game), three State Championships (in 1995 beating Palmeiras, in 1997 beating São Paulo and 1999 beating Palmeiras again) and a Brazilian Cup (in 1995 beating Grêmio) in quick succession.

In 2000, Corinthians, who captured FIFA Club World Championship victory against Vasco da Gama(win 4-3 on penalties) at the "Maracanã" Stadium. This match had attendance of 73,000 peoples. This is the most important title of Corinthians. Corinthians played the final game with Dida, Índio, Fábio Luciano, Adílson & Kléber; Vampeta (Gilmar), Rincón, Marcelinho Carioca & Ricardinho (Edu); Edílson (Fernando Baiano) & Luizão. 
Coach: Oswaldo de Oliveira 

The final months of 2004 marked a new era for the "Timão" and for Brazilian football. The partnership between MSI and Corinthians revolutionised the game and brought internationalists like Carlos Tévez, Javier Mascherano, Roger, Carlos Alberto and Gustavo Nery to the club. The future was bright for the club and fans could not help but feel optimistic they would enjoy many more triumphs in the coming years.

And so it proved, with success coming quicker than they could have hoped for. Led by Argentine star Carlos Tévez, the "Timão" had a sensational league campaign in 2005 and won their fourth Brazilian League Title in 2005.

More new signings were made in 2006 with Ricardinho, Rafael Moura and goalkeeper Silvio Luiz coming to the club in a bid to strengthen a squad that would be competing for another Brazilian League title and the Copa Libertadores.


Neco (1913-30), Teleco (1933-44), Servílio (1938-48), Domingos da Guia (1944-48), Cláudio (1945-57), Baltazar (1947-58), Luizinho (1949-62 & 1964-67), Gilmar dos Santos Neves (1951-61), Rivelino (1965-74), Sócrates (1978-84), Daniel González (1982), Dunga (1984-85), Neto (1989-93), Carlos Gamarra (1998-99), Dida (1999-2001), Marcelinho Carioca (1993-97, 1998-2001), Edílson (1997-2000), Luizão (1999-2002), Carlos Tevez (2005-06), Ronaldo (2009), Roberto Carlos (2010)



</doc>
<doc id="59136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59136" title="Lyrics">
Lyrics

Lyrics are the words to a song. A person who writes lyrics is called a lyricist.

The lyrics of a song will usually have a meaning. Some times the meaning is easy to find but other times it can be very difficult to know what the lyrics mean. Some lyrics are so strange that it is nearly impossible to understand them. In such cases, people tend to look more at the form, articulation, meter, and symmetries of the lyrics instead of looking at their meaning.

There are many websites that have the lyrics to songs. This may be a bad thing since many web sites include copyright lyrics without permission from the copyright holder. The United States Music Publishers' Association (MPA), which represents sheet music companies, created a campaign against such sites in December 2005. MPA president Lauren Keiser said that the sites are "completely illegal" and that he wanted to see some site operators put in prison.

"Lyric" is from the Greek; a lyric was originally a song sung with a lyre.

A lyric poem is one that expresses a subjective, personal point of view.

The word "lyric" was used for the "words of a popular song" about 1876 for the first time. The plural "lyrics" was used only in referring to the words of several songs. That it is used for the words of a single song as its "lyrics" became increasingly common (probably because of the association between "lyrics" and the plural form "words"), and is common in modern usage of today's society. Use of the singular form "lyric" is still grammatically acceptable.


</doc>
<doc id="59137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59137" title="Judicial review">
Judicial review

Judicial review is the power of a court to decide whether a law or decision by the government is constitutional. This power was established in the United States in the Supreme Court case Marbury v. Madison.

Countries that have judicial review are: Ireland, Malaysia, the Philippines, Scotland, Spain, Switzerland, and the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="59138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59138" title="Torrance">
Torrance

Torrance is the name of several places in the United States of America, and one in Canada, and two small villages in Scotland:

People:


</doc>
<doc id="59143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59143" title="Category:Madrid">
Category:Madrid


</doc>
<doc id="59145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59145" title="Asian Dust">
Asian Dust

Asian Dust (also yellow dust, yellow sand, yellow wind, or China dust storms) is a weather occurrence that happens each year. It affects much of East Asia during the spring. The dust comes from deserts in Mongolia, northern China, and Kazakhstan. The dust comes from surface winds and dust storms in the desert. The clouds are carried by eastward winds to China, Japan, east Russia and the Koreas. Smaller particles in the clouds can travel much farther to places like the United States. In the last ten years, these dust storms have become a serious problem because they have picked up industrial pollutants.



</doc>
<doc id="59146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59146" title="Aden Abdullah Osman Daar">
Aden Abdullah Osman Daar

Aden Abdulle Osman Daar ("Aaden Cabdulle Cusmaan Daar") (1908-2007), was a Somali politician. 

In February 1944, he joined the Somali Youth Club (later called the Somali Youth League). The group was a nationalist party that wanted independence for Somalia. Daar became a member of the party's steering board. In 1946, he was appointed as the secretary of one section of the party. He was chairman of the Somali Youth League from 1954 to 1956, and again from 1958 to 1959. In 1956, he was elected chairman of the Legislative Assembly.

When Somalia gained its independence on July 1, 1960, Daar was elected as the first president of Somalia. He was beaten in the 1967 presidential election against Abdirashid Ali Shermarke. He finished his term as president on June 10, 1967.


</doc>
<doc id="59154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59154" title="Service of worship">
Service of worship

A service of worship is a religious meeting where people come together, usually in a church or cathedral, in order to worship God. It may also be called a church service or just service. It is the usual term used in the Christian religion for such a meeting.

In the Protestant church services are usually led by a priest, although sometimes they may be led by laymen (people who are not priests).

In the Christian churches services are normally held on Sundays, although there may be services on other days as well, especially in large churches or cathedrals.

Services often include Holy Communion or Eucharist. Matins is a morning service which does not include communion. An evening service is called Evensong.

Church services are also held for weddings, funerals, or other special occasions.

Services may include prayers, singing, sermons (preaching) and readings from the Bible.


</doc>
<doc id="59161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59161" title="Bandidos">
Bandidos

Bandidos is a motorcycle club with a worldwide membership. The club was formed in 1966 by Don Chambers in Texas. Its slogan is ""We are the people our parents warned us about"". Bandidos is estimated to have 2 400 members in 195 chapters, located in 14 countries.



</doc>
<doc id="59163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59163" title="Hells Angels">
Hells Angels

Hells Angels is a motorcycle club with a worldwide membership. The club was formed in 1948 in Fontana, California. One of the best known members is Ralph 'Sonny' Barger, the ""Godfather of the Hells Angels"".



</doc>
<doc id="59165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59165" title="Outlaws Motorcycle Club">
Outlaws Motorcycle Club

The Outlaws Motorcycle Club is an American motorcycle club. It was formed in Mc Cook, Illinois in 1935. The club has chapters in USA, Canada, Australia, Asia and Europe.



</doc>
<doc id="59166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59166" title="Blood and Honour">
Blood and Honour

Blood and Honour is a Neo-Nazi music promotion network. The group organises concerts and distributes records by Rock Against Communism bands. Ian Stuart Donaldson, singer of the band Skrewdriver, was the founder of Blood and Honour. The name Blood and Honour is taken from the motto of the Hitler Youth, "Blut und Ehre".


</doc>
<doc id="59177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59177" title="Perry Rhodan">
Perry Rhodan

Perry Rhodan is a German science fiction series, published since 1961.

"Perry Rhodan" picks up nearly every theme that has ever appeared in science fiction. People from outside have criticised the series, but its commercial success during several decades has become a literary phenomenon in itself. If nothing else, "Perry Rhodan" provides a mirror of the 1960s Cold War, 1970s New Age, and 1980s peace movement in its story line. The series has an important influence on German writers in the field. The writing of the series still goes on.

Written by an ever-changing team of authors, "Perry Rhodan" is issued in weekly in the traditional German "Heftchen" (pulp booklet) format. The series was created in 1961 by K. H. Scheer and Clark Darlton. Initially, it should have thirty volumes, but it became an long lasting success and passed 2350 installments in 2006.

Perry Rhodan is one of four fictional astronauts of the USA. In 1971, they fly to the moon, where they meet an extraterrestrial space-ship. From its owners they get technology, which they use to end the cold war and to unite the people of the Earth. Then "Terra", the Earth, becomes a power in intergalactical politics.



</doc>
<doc id="59182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59182" title="Wieluń">
Wieluń

Wieluń is a city in the central part of Poland. Around 27,000 people live here. The city was started in 1283.

Wieluń is twinned with:



</doc>
<doc id="59189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59189" title="Nasjonal Samling">
Nasjonal Samling

Nasjonal Samling (Norwegian for "National Gathering" or "National Unity") was a fascist party in Norway, active in the period 1933-1945. The party was founded by Vidkun Quisling and a group of sympathisers. The party's paramilitary wing was called "Hirden" (the Hird).


</doc>
<doc id="59195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59195" title="One Piece">
One Piece

One Piece (ワンピース|Wanpīsu) is a Manga (and Anime) series created by Eiichiro Oda, and follows the Strawhat Pirates, led by captain Monkey D. Luffy, on their adventures in Grand Line. The main theme is Monkey D. Luffy's dream to find the One Piece, a grand treasure that the King of the Pirates, Gold Roger left behind. One Piece seems to take place in a world with one continent, infinite islands, and a vast and large sea filled with monsters and treasure.

Monkey D. Luffy is the main character and is captain of the ship. He ate a devils fruit that turned his body into rubber.

Zoro was a former pirate hunter but turned into a pirate when he joined Luffy. When he was little he was the greatest warrior in his dojo, next to Kuina the teacher`s daughter, who was frustrated that girls weren`t able to become great swordsman. Zoro points out that it does not matter if you are a boy or girl. They then make a promise to one another that one of them will be the greatest swordsman, or swordwoman, of all time. The very next day Kuina dies after falling down some stairs. Zoro then takes her sword so he can fulfill their dream.

Sanji has a good cook and a martial artist (who uses his feet only) that falls in love with almost every girl he sees. His dream is to find All Blue, and as a cook he values his hands greatly. Because of a period of starvation in his early life (while in the company of Honor Sef), Sanji will always feed someone who is hungry.

Nami is a thief that steals from pirates. 

Usopp is a great sniper but a coward who likes to lie. His weapon is a slingshot, and he has excellent aim. Luffy officially made him the crew's sniper after he had perfect aim on his first try at shooting a cannon, destroying an island in one blow (which also happened to be the island whereYosaku and Joni were resting).

Chopper is a blue-nosed reindeer that ate a devils fruit which gave him the ability to become partly human. He is the doctor of the straw hat crew, and has a habit of "hiding behind objects" in a way where he is completely visible.

Robin, formerly member of the crime organisation Baroque Works, joins the crew after being saved by Luffy. She ate a devils fruit that lets her create copies of her body parts on any surface she wants.

Franky is a cyborg and a ship craftsman. His body runs on Cola, alhough using other liquids can give amusing results. Franky's usual attire consists of swimming pants and some kind of t-shirt, even in freezing conditions. His usual phrase is "SUPA!"

Brook is a living skeleton, who in his former life ate the devils fruit that gave him the ability to come back to life after his death. He is a swordsman and a musician. He can play many instruments, varying from the piano to the violin. His crew were the same pirates that left the whale at the beginning of the grand line.



</doc>
<doc id="59197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59197" title="Style guide">
Style guide

A style guide (also known as style manual) is a set of rules for language usage and design of documents (records). Some style guides are about things related to graphic design, such as arranging words and white space on a page. Website style guides often help with visual or technical things. Literary style guides help with choosing the best words, common errors in grammar, punctuation and spelling; and help for how to express ideas in a precise, fair and forceful way.

Some modern style guides are for use by all people. These are usually more about language than about how it should look.

Style guides do not stop a writer from using his own unique style, but some writers believe style guides are too restrictive.

Like language itself, many style guides change as time passes. For example, the Associated Press stylebook is updated every year.


</doc>
<doc id="59198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59198" title="Category:Graphics">
Category:Graphics

Graphics is a category for the tools of design, including computer applications and basic visual rules used in graphic design and visual arts.


</doc>
<doc id="59199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59199" title="Parque del Buen Retiro">
Parque del Buen Retiro

The Retiro Park is the best known park in Madrid. It was planned in 1632 as palace gardens by King Felipe IV. 'Retiro' means retreat or a place to rest.

When it was first built, it was a little way from the city. Now, the city has become so big that it is in the city center. It was opened to the public in 1868.

In it you can find a famous rose garden, a museum, a boating lake and the Crystal Palace. Many shows and street theaters can be seen at the park on weekends.


</doc>
<doc id="59200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59200" title="Crystal Palace (Madrid)">
Crystal Palace (Madrid)

The Palacio de Cristal or Crystal Palace is a large glass building in Madrid, Spain. It is located in the Retiro Park on the Paseo Duque de Fernán Nuñez. The palace was built in 1887 to keep exotic plants from the Philippines. It is made of glass and steel. Later in 1924 plastic and rubber were added to it. 


</doc>
<doc id="59201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59201" title="Las Ventas">
Las Ventas

The Plaza de Toros de Las Ventas is a building in Madrid, Spain used mainly for bullfighting. Sometimes it is just called Las Ventas. It is made of red brick and ceramic tiles. It was built in 1929 by José Espelious and Muñoz Monasterio. The first bullfight was June 17, 1931. It is also used for concerts.

Most fights start at 7 p.m. when the sun is not too hot. Tickets are sold for 'sol' or 'sombra'. The 'sombra' tickets for seats not in the sunlight cost more.


</doc>
<doc id="59205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59205" title="Category:Buildings and structures in Spain">
Category:Buildings and structures in Spain


</doc>
<doc id="59210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59210" title="Yellow spot">
Yellow spot

Yellow spot or macula is an oval yellow spot near the center of the retina of human eye. It has a size of 1.5 millimeters in the spock of the eye

It is specialized for seeing things with highest clearness or visual acuity.


</doc>
<doc id="59212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59212" title="Category:Eye">
Category:Eye


</doc>
<doc id="59214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59214" title="Category:Ophthalmology">
Category:Ophthalmology


</doc>
<doc id="59215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59215" title="Retina">
Retina

The retina is the thin layer of cells that lines the back of the eyeball in humans and in many animals. It is made mainly of neurons and its role is to sense the light which gets into the eye and send information about it to the brain.

The information about light is for two different purposes, and it takes two different paths. Information about light which travels through the optic nerve is for sight. Information about light which travels through the "retino-hypothamalic tract" is for adjusting circadian rhythms to the 24-hour day.


</doc>
<doc id="59218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59218" title="The Exploited">
The Exploited

The Exploited is a Scottish punk metal band. The band was formed in 1979 in Edinburgh, Scotland.











</doc>
<doc id="59221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59221" title="4Kids">
4Kids

4Kids Entertainment (commonly known as 4Kids) is an American movie and television production company. They specializing in the creation and distribution of children's entertainment around the world. The company is most well-known for the large number of Anime and animated television series it has provided to television stations. These series currently include "Yu-Gi-Oh!" and "Sonic the Hedgehog". 4Kids Entertainment produced Pokemon until 2006. The company was first created in 1970 as "Leisure Concepts, Inc".

4Kids Entertainment has provided a number of series for the Fox television network. These series have been shown on the network using the name 4Kids TV. 

4Kids Entertainment gets most of its Anime series from Japan. Before showing the series in the United States and United Kingdom, the series are edited. This editing includes changing the words from Japanese to English. It may also include changing other things which could be thought to be bad. For example, cigarette smoking is often removed before being shown in the United States. Changing the names of items from Japanese items to American items is also often done. This is done so the person watching can understand the show more easily. 

Many times the story of an episode is changed completely to make it better for children. Some people believe all the changes to the Anime is a bad thing. They say that the series should be shown exactly the same as it was originally created. They feel 4Kids made "Americanized kiddy version" of the original series and that it is not right to do this. 



</doc>
<doc id="59225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59225" title="Cubism">
Cubism

Cubism was a very important avant-garde art movement which started in 1906 in France. 

Cubism is a style of art which aims to show all of the possible viewpoints of a person or an object all at once. It is called Cubism because the items represented in the artworks look like they are made out of cubes and other geometrical shapes. Cubism was first started by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. Analytical Cubism is the first type of cubism. Most analytical Cubists painted and drew in monochrome (only one colour) so that the person who was looking at the painting did not pay attention to colour, but only to the shapes and the forms that were being shown.

This was changed in 1912 when Picasso first started painting with colours and using collages. Collage is when you glue together different cut-up pieces of paper to make an artwork. This new form of Cubism was called Synthetic Cubism. Picasso invented collage because he was tired of the way he was making his art, and wanted to try out something new.
Pablo Picasso created over 20,000 pictures. From 1912 to 1919 was Picasso's Synthetic Cubism Period. 

Picasso and Braque only showed their artworks in privately owned galleries. Because of this, they are called the Gallery Cubists.

Soon, there was a group of painters who painted in a Cubist style who showed their artworks in public galleries, which in Paris at the time were called Salons. This group of painters were called the Salon Cubists. These artists were interested in showing, in their artworks, mathematical and philosophical ideas that were new at the time. 

Many critics now think that the work of the Gallery Cubists is better than that of the Salon Cubists, but some disagree. However, most people agree that the Gallery Cubists had a bigger influence overall and more impact on the rest of 20th century art than the Salon Cubists.

At the time, very few people knew about the Gallery Cubists because they were so secretive and private, but everyone knew about the Salon Cubists. This is the opposite of how we know about Cubism today: Pablo Picasso the Gallery Cubist is very famous, but far fewer people know about the Salon Cubists. Some of the Salon Cubists include:

Henri Le Fauconnier
Jean Metzinger
Albert Gleizes
Robert Delaunay
Fernand Leger



</doc>
<doc id="59226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59226" title="Sham 69">
Sham 69

Sham 69 is a punk rock band from England. The band was formed in Hersham in 1975.




</doc>
<doc id="59229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59229" title="Category:Motorcycle clubs">
Category:Motorcycle clubs


</doc>
<doc id="59230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59230" title="Category:Motorcycling">
Category:Motorcycling

This catgeory contains the activities or interests related to riding a motorcycle.


</doc>
<doc id="59232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59232" title="Category:Motorcycles">
Category:Motorcycles


</doc>
<doc id="59235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59235" title="Visual acuity">
Visual acuity

Visual acuity (VA) is acuteness or clearness of vision, especially form vision, which depends on the sharpness of the retinal focus within the eye, the sensitivity of the nervous elements, and the interpretative faculty of the brain.

VA is a quantitative measure of the ability to identify black symbols on a white background at a standardized distance when the size of the symbols is varied. The VA represents the smallest size that can be reliably identified. VA is the most common clinical measurement of visual function. 

Some people may suffer from other visual problems, such as color blindness, reduced contrast, or inability to track fast-moving objects and still have normal visual acuity. Thus, normal visual acuity does not mean normal vision. The reason visual acuity is very widely used is that it is a test that corresponds very well with the normal daily activities a person can handle, and evaluate their impairment to do them.



</doc>
<doc id="59241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59241" title="Robert Baker">
Robert Baker

Bob Baker (October 26, 1926 - April 23, 2002) was an American boxer. He was one of the world's leading heavyweight boxers in the 1950's. Bob "The Grinder" Baker was born in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania. He started fighting out of Pittsburgh. His most notable accomplishments include the 1949 Pennsylvania Intercity Golden Gloves championship in the heavyweight division. Baker started his professional career with twenty-six straight victories before drawing against Kid Riviera and losing the next fight to another good boxer, Clarence Henry.

From April 1955 until February of 1956, Baker and Archie Moore were both ranked as the leading challengers to Rocky Marciano's heavyweight title. On Wednesday, December 7th, 1955, Baker beat Nino Valdez.

After 13 wins, Baker lost to Tommy Hurricane Jackson on February 3, 1956, in New York's Madison Square Garden. It was a split decision win for Jackson. In May 1956, Baker easily defeated John Holman. Baker also lost another split decision rematch with Jackson on September 26, 1956. Opinions on both Baker-Jackson fights were divided in many publications with most of them giving the fight to Baker. The September match was given to Baker by The United Press. It scored the fight 7-5 for Baker. A poll of 13 ringside writers favored Baker 9-4 and it reported that many of the fans were very surprised with the split decision.

After 1956, Baker's success was limited. His most notable victory was a sound defeat of Canadian George Chuvalo, the future Canadian heavyweight champion, by unanimous decision on September 9, 1957. Chuvalo was also a multiple time top contender in the 1960s and 1970s. 

Baker died on April 23, 2002, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.



</doc>
<doc id="59242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59242" title="Michaëlle Jean">
Michaëlle Jean

Her Excellency the Rt. Hon. Michaëlle Jean (born September 6, 1957, in Port-au-Prince, Haiti) is a Haitian-born Canadian politician and journalist. She was the Governor General of Canada, replacing Adrienne Clarkson on 27 September 2005, , until 1 October 2010 when David Lloyd Johnston took over.

Jean was formally appointed Special Envoy for Haiti for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on November 8, 2010, for a four-year term.


</doc>
<doc id="59243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59243" title="Pascal Duquenne">
Pascal Duquenne

Pascal Duquenne is a Belgian actor. He was born in Vilvoorde, Flanders, Belgium on 8 August 1970. He was diagnosed with Down syndrome.

It was Jaco van Dormael who noticed him (as Ducquenne was playing theatre). Dormael offered him his first roles in films.

In 1996 Pascal Duquenne and Daniel Auteuil were awarded a prize (for best male interpretation) at the Cannes Film Festival. Duquenne received the prize for the role of a boy who has Down syndrome. The film was called Le Huitième Jour (The Eight Day).

He also has acted in other films. Currently he lives in Brussels.



</doc>
<doc id="59244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59244" title="Catherine Emmerich">
Catherine Emmerich

Sister Anne Catherine Emmerich (September 8, 1774 - February 9, 1824) was a German Augustinian nun. She is remembered for her mystical visions of Jesus' and Mary's lives. What she saw was written in books, for example, "The Dolorous Passion of Our Lord, Jesus Christ". The book later had an important part as a main source of information for Mel Gibson's movie "The Passion of the Christ".

She was stuck in bed when marks of stigmata showed up she had doctors and physicians examine her markings, and it was found to be a genuine stigmatic case.

Sister Emmerich and Gibson


</doc>
<doc id="59249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59249" title="New Year">
New Year

The New Year is an event that happens when a culture celebrates the end of one year and the beginning of the next year. Cultures that measure yearly calendars all have New Year celebrations. On January 1, 1600 Scotland, was the first country to adopt January 1 as the first day of the New Year.



</doc>
<doc id="59250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59250" title="Polyethylene">
Polyethylene

Polyethylene (also called polyethene) is a thermoplastic. It is used in consumer goods, typical examples are transport wraps, and garbage bags. Other uses include pre-fabricated plastic parts, plastic tubes, and insulation of electric cables.


</doc>
<doc id="59252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59252" title="Polyvinyl chloride">
Polyvinyl chloride

Polyvinyl chloride, also called Polychloroethene or PVC, is a thermoplastic. It soft when heated and hard when cooled. 

It can be made softer and more flexible by adding plasticizers. Phthalates are very often used to soften PVC in this way. Softened PVC is used in clothing, upholstery, electrical cable insulation, and other products instead of rubber.

About half of the polyvinyl chloride resin manufactured each year is used to make pipes. PVC pipes are 66% of the new water pipes in the US. PVC pipes are 75% of new sewer pipes. PVC is useful because of its light weight, high strength, and low reactivity. Also, PVC pipes can be glued together, or they can be connected by heating (similar to joining HDPE pipe). Both kinds of connections make permanent joints that do not leak.
PVC plastics can be recycled. Their recycling code is "3".


</doc>
<doc id="59255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59255" title="Polyamide">
Polyamide

A polyamide is a polymer made of amides which are joined by peptide bonds. Examples for polyamides that occur naturally are proteins, such as wool and silk. It is also possible to artificially produce polyamides, one growth-step at a time. Examples for artificially-made polyamides are nylons, aramids and Sodium poly(aspartate).


</doc>
<doc id="59256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59256" title="Clarence Henry">
Clarence Henry

Clarence Henry (born March 27, 1926) was an American heavyweight boxer. 

He was a leading boxer in the heavyweight division in the early to mid-1950s. Henry was 1948 "Los Angeles Times" Golden Gloves Heavyweight Champion. 

He was elected into the World Boxing Hall of Fame in 1998.



</doc>
<doc id="59267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59267" title="Category:Business people">
Category:Business people


</doc>
<doc id="59269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59269" title="Category:American business people">
Category:American business people


</doc>
<doc id="59271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59271" title="Category:User te-1">
Category:User te-1


</doc>
<doc id="59272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59272" title="Category:User te">
Category:User te


</doc>
<doc id="59273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59273" title="Template:User te-1">
Template:User te-1


</doc>
<doc id="59275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59275" title="Category:Renaissance">
Category:Renaissance


</doc>
<doc id="59280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59280" title="Category:Italian painters">
Category:Italian painters


</doc>
<doc id="59282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59282" title="Category:Spanish painters">
Category:Spanish painters


</doc>
<doc id="59292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59292" title="Supreme Leader of Iran">
Supreme Leader of Iran

The Supreme Leader of Iran is the head of state of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The Supreme Leader is also the highest ranking Islamic cleric in the country.

The position of "Supreme Leader" was created after the Islamic Revolution of 1979 in Iran.

Imam Khomeini and Imam Khamenei have the two Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic so far.

President of Iran


</doc>
<doc id="59295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59295" title="President of Iran">
President of Iran

The President of Iran is the head of government of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The president is chosen by direct popular vote, that is the voters choose the president, they do not vote for other people to choose as in the USA. Unlike other countries, in Iran, the President is not the leader of the country. The President does many of the things that are normally done by a head of state but the Supreme Leader is the person who is actually in control of the country. The current President of Iran is Mahmoud Ahmadinejad



</doc>
<doc id="59297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59297" title="Ruhollah Khomeini">
Ruhollah Khomeini

Ayatollah Sayyed Ruhollah Mustafavi Khomeini (born September 24, 1902 [need more reference] in Khomein, Central Iran (then Persia), died June 3, 1989) (Persian: روح الله موسوی خمینی) also known as Imam Khomeini and Ayatollah Khomeini, was an Iranian Muslim leader. (An Imam is a spiritual leader who is respected, and an Ayatollah Sayyed is someone who holds both a political and religious position of power). Khomeini was the political leader of the Islamic Revolution in 1979.

Khomeini was also a poet. His poems are collected together in an "Imam Divan". Khomeini died of cancer on June 3, 1989, at the age of 87.

On June 5, 1964, Khomeini was arrested and sent into exile. He was exiled to Iraq, Turkey and then to France. Khomeini gave many speeches in France against Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the last Shah of Iran. On January 16, 1979, Pahlavi left Iran. Two weeks later, on February 1, Khomeini returned to Iran.

He received a traditional religious education in Qom (city in Iran). When he lived in Najaf (a holy city in Iraq) for some years, he spoke about Islam ideas about Government. During that time, he refined his theory of "velayat-e faqih" ("government of the jurist").

On February 11, 1979, Khomeini appointed his first own prime minister, Medhi Bazargan. On March 30, 1979 a referendum took place in Iran and as a result, the monarchy was replaced with an Islamic Republic. After the Islamic Revolution, Khomeini became Supreme Leader of Iran.



</doc>
<doc id="59302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59302" title="Theocracy">
Theocracy

In Theocracy, a form of government, the institutions and people that govern the state are very close to the leaders of the main religion. If the religious leaders do not directly run some bodies of the state, they influence them very much. The word theocracy comes from two Greek words literally meaning God-government, and meaning the government is run by "The Church".

The Roman Catholic bishop of Urgell is one of the princes of the country. His role is mostly ceremonial.

According to the Anglican Church the monarch of England is the supreme governor of the church. In real life, this role is mostly ceremonial though.

In Iran, two bodies, the Supreme Leader and Guardian Council consist of members who are not elected by the people. These two bodies are staffed by Shia clerics. The highest elected official is the President of Iran.

Mohammad Khatami, the former president, said that this model is an alternative to democracy, as it brings in religious elements. He called it a Religious democracy.

Some people see traits of theocracy in Israel. This is because rabbinical law and civil law must be mixed for certain aspects. Also, the state hires rabbis. These rabbis also have civil duties, not only religious ones. 


</doc>
<doc id="59303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59303" title="Ahmad Jannati">
Ahmad Jannati

Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati (born 1926) has been the secretary of the Guardian Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran since 1988.



</doc>
<doc id="59304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59304" title="Guardian Council">
Guardian Council

The Guardian Council is a governmental body that ensures the laws passed by Iran's legislature are Islamic. It was created in 1979.


</doc>
<doc id="59306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59306" title="Incumbent">
Incumbent

An incumbent is someone who currently holds a political office. This word is usually used when talking about elections, which are often between the incumbent and one other person or several other people. For example, in the 2004 United States presidential election, George W. Bush was the incumbent because he was the president at that time. It can also be used in sports to let you know if a sportsman still holds the position or award in question


</doc>
<doc id="59307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59307" title="Assembly of Experts">
Assembly of Experts

The Assembly of Experts was created after the Islamic Revolution in Iran. It is an assembly of Islamic clerics who have the power to choose the successor of the Supreme Leader of Iran.



</doc>
<doc id="59308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59308" title="Ali Meshkini">
Ali Meshkini

Ayatollah Ali Meshkini (born in 1922) has been the chairman of the Assembly of Experts of the Islamic Republic of Iran since 1984.



</doc>
<doc id="59311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59311" title="Judiciary">
Judiciary

In the law, the judiciary or judicial system is the system of courts that administer justice in the name of the sovereign or state. A judicial system is used to resolve arguments. 

The term is also used to refer collectively to the judges and magistrates who form the basis of a judiciary, as well as the other people who help keep the system running properly.

Separation of powers causes separate branches of government that each have a different purpose. The judiciary is the branch of government that interprets the law.There are 3 branches in this whole process. The Legislature,The Executive and The Judiciary at the most. The judiciary can also be called as the Guardian of Fundamental Rights because it protects the fundamental right of every citizen and as well as take actions if any law is violated.



</doc>
<doc id="59312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59312" title="Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi">
Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi

Ayatollah Seyyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi (born in 1948) has been the head of the judiciary of the Islamic Republic of Iran since 1999.

He was born in Najaf, Iraq.

Ayatollah Shahroudi is best know for ordering a moratorium on stoning as a form of the death penalty. However later it was shown that executions by stoning are still being carried out, in spite of his claims that they have stopped. Stoning is still happening inside prisons, where the public cannot see it. .



</doc>
<doc id="59314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59314" title="Expediency Discernment Council">
Expediency Discernment Council

The Expediency Discernment Council is a governmental body for resolving disputes between the Guardian Council and the legislature in the Islamic Republic of Iran.



</doc>
<doc id="59317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59317" title="Template:User scn">
Template:User scn


</doc>
<doc id="59320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59320" title="Mata Hari">
Mata Hari

Mata Hari was the stage name of Margaretha Geertruida (Grietje) Zelle (7 August, 1876, Leeuwarden, The Netherlands – 15 October, 1917, Vincennes, France). She was a Dutch-Frisian exotic dancer. She was executed by a firing squad. People at the time thought she was a spy during World War I and because she had relationships with both German and French officers, they thought she was a doublespy.
Her dossier will not be released until 2017 (a hundred years after her death).


</doc>
<doc id="59348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59348" title="Father Damien">
Father Damien

Father Damien, also Saint Damien of Molokai, born as Joseph de Veuster in Belgium on January 3, 1840 and died on April 15, 1889, was a Roman Catholic Priest and missionary. He was known for helping people with leprosy in the colony of Kalaupapa on the island of Molokai in Hawaii. Father Damien came to Hawaii in 1864. During this time, many Native Hawaiians were dying from many of the diseases they caught from the white settlers. The King of Hawaii, made the people who had leprosy live in a colony away from other people. Father Damien went to help the sick people and gave them hope. Father Damien also died from leprosy, but what he did helped many people. 

In 1995, he was beatified (made an important person) by the Pope, and he is recognized by both the Catholic and Anglican churches. Father Damien was canonized by Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday October 11, 2009. 

His is Patron Saint of the Diocese of Honolulu, as well as all of Hawaii, of people with leprosy, and of outcasts, as well as people suffering from HIV and AIDS as well. He also had a wife called Arobbea.


</doc>
<doc id="59352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59352" title="Jack Dempsey">
Jack Dempsey

William Harrison "Jack" Dempsey (June 24, 1895 – May 31, 1983) was an American boxer who held the world heavyweight title between 1919 and 1926. Known as "The Manassa Mauler," Dempsey was a tremendous puncher famous for his exciting fights, many of which set financial and attendance records.

He won the title by beating Jess Willard on July 4, 1919. He defended the title six times before losing it to Gene Tunney in 1926. They had a rematch in 1927 and Tunney again beat Dempsey. It was during this fight where the "Long Count" took place. Dempsey knocked Tunney down in the seventh round. The referee would not start counting until Dempsey went to a neutral corner, so it is estimated that Tunney had as many as fourteen seconds to rise (instead of the usual ten).

Dempsey retired in 1928. He fought exhibitions after his retirement, served as a commander in the Coast Guard during World War II, and opened a restaurant in New York City.

Dempsey died in 1983.



</doc>
<doc id="59353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59353" title="Jess Willard">
Jess Willard

Jess Willard (December 29, 1881—December 15, 1968) was an American boxer. He was the heavyweight best puncher in the world from 1915 to 1919. When Jack Johnson was the Black world champion, Willard was one of the many "White Hopes" who wanted to take the title. He succeeded when he beat Johnson by a 26th round out-cold punch in Cuba in 1915. He fought to keep the title and won once before losing it to Jack Dempsey in 1919.



</doc>
<doc id="59354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59354" title="Nicholas II of Russia">
Nicholas II of Russia

Nicholas II of Russia, (May 18, 1868 – July 17, 1918) was the last Tsar or Emperor of Russia. He became Tsar in 1894 after his father, Tsar Alexander III died. He married Princess Alix of Hesse, who was the granddaughter of Queen Victoria, and they had five children, Olga, Tatiana, Maria,Anastasia, and Alexi. Alexi suffered from a disease called haemophilia, which caused his parents great sadness. World War I created many problems for Russia and the Tsar. In 1917 there was a revolution and he abdicated (gave up being Tsar) in March of that year. He and his family were held as prisoners under house arrest. On July 17, 1918, Nicholas, his wife, and their children were killed by a firing squad. In 1981, the Tsar and his family were made Saints by the Russian Orthodox Church. In 1990, the bones of the Tsar and his family were found in the woods and given a proper burial in 1998.



</doc>
<doc id="59358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59358" title="Category:1863 establishments">
Category:1863 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="59359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59359" title="Category:19th century establishments">
Category:19th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="59360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59360" title="William Tell">
William Tell

William Tell (; ; ) is a folk hero from Switzerland. In the story William Tell is a man who refused to bow down to pole set up by an army who had taken over the place he lived. He was arrested and forced to shoot an apple off his son's head with a crossbow, if he did not both he and his son would be killed. Tell shot the apple off the son's head and did not harm his son. He is considered a legend and his actions helped form Switzerland as a nation.



</doc>
<doc id="59366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59366" title="Antioch">
Antioch

Antioch on the Orontes was an ancient city on the eastern side (left bank) of the Orontes River on the site of the modern city of Antakya, Turkey.

It was founded near the end of the 4th century BC by Seleucus I Nicator, one of Alexander the Great's generals. Antioch became a rival of Alexandria as the chief city of the nearer East and the cradle of gentile Christianity. It was one of the four cities of the Syrian tetrapolis.

The geographical character of the district north and north-east of the elbow of Orontes makes it the perfect natural centre of Syria, so long as that country is held by a western power; and only Asiatic, and especially Arab, dynasties have neglected it for the oasis of Damascus. During the Crusades, the Christian crusaders laid siege to Antioch. One Wijerd Jelckamas ancestors from his father's side of the family had died at the Siege of Antioch.
The siege of Antioch (lost by the Crusaders, initially), was a turning point in the Crusades.

Alexander the Great is said to have camped on the site of Antioch, and dedicated an altar to Zeus Bottiaeus

After Alexander's death in 323 BC, his generals divided up the territory he had conquered. Seleucus I Nicator won the territory of Syria, and he founded four "sister cities" in northwestern Syria - Antioch, Seleucia Pieria, Apamea and Laodicea-on-the-Sea. Although Seleucia Pieria was at first the Seleucid capital city in northwestern Syria, Antioch soon rose above it to become the Syrian capital.

The original city of Seleucus was laid out in imitation of the plan of Alexandria by the architect Xenarius. 
The new city was populated by a mix of local settlers, Athenians brought from the nearby city of Antigonia, Macedonians, and Jews (who were given full status from the beginning). The total free population of Antioch at its foundation has been estimated at between 17,000 and 25,000, not including slaves and native settlers. During the late Hellenistic period and Early Roman period, Antioch population reached its peak of over 500,000 inhabitants (estimates vary from 400,000 to 600,000) and was the third largest city in the world after Rome and Alexandria. By the 4th century, Antioch's declining population was about 200,000 according to Chrysostom, a figure which again does not include slaves.

Antioch became the capital and court-city of the western Seleucid empire under Antiochus I, its counterpart in the east being Seleucia on the Tigris.

The Romans both felt and expressed boundless contempt for the hybrid Antiochenes; but their emperors favoured the city from the first, seeing in it a more suitable capital for the eastern part of the empire than Alexandria could ever be, because of the isolated position of Egypt. To a certain extent they tried to make it an eastern Rome. 
The chief interest of Antioch under the empire lies in its relation to Christianity.

In 638, during the reign of the Byzantine emperor Heraclius, Antioch was conquered by the Muslim Arabs during the Battle of Iron Bridge, and became known in Arabic as أنطاكيّة Antākiyyah. 

In recent years, what remains of the Roman and late antique city have suffered severe damage as a result of construction related to the expansion of Antakya. In the 1960s, the last surviving Roman bridge was demolished to make way for a modern two-lane bridge. The northern edge of Antakya has been growing rapidly over recent years, and this construction has begun to expose large portions of the ancient city, which are frequently bulldozed and rarely protected by the local museum.



</doc>
<doc id="59377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59377" title="Board">
Board

Board could mean: 


</doc>
<doc id="59378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59378" title="Pitman arm">
Pitman arm

The Pitman arm is a component that converts the angular motion of a sector shaft into linear motion. 

It is used in automobiles or trucks to steer the wheels. 

The Pitman transmits the motion it receives from the steering box into the drag link So it makes it move left or right to turn the wheels in the appropriate direction. The idler arm is attached between the opposite side of the centre link from the Pitman arm and the vehicle's frame to hold the centre link at the proper height.


</doc>
<doc id="59399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59399" title="Category:American boxers">
Category:American boxers


</doc>
<doc id="59403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59403" title="Category:14 births">
Category:14 births


</doc>
<doc id="59404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59404" title="Category:10s births">
Category:10s births


</doc>
<doc id="59405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59405" title="Category:1396 births">
Category:1396 births


</doc>
<doc id="59406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59406" title="Category:1396">
Category:1396


</doc>
<doc id="59407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59407" title="Category:1475 deaths">
Category:1475 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="59417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59417" title="Solvent">
Solvent

A solvent is a liquid that becomes a solution by dissolving a solid, liquid, or gaseous . The most common solvent in everyday life is water. 

Most other commonly-used solvents are organic (carbon-containing) chemicals. These are called organic solvents. Solvents usually have a low boiling point and evaporate easily or can be removed by distillation, thereby leaving the dissolved substance behind. Solvents should therefore not react chemically with the dissolved compounds — they have to be inert. Solvents can also be used to extract soluble compounds from a mixture, the most common example is the brewing of coffee or tea with hot water. Solvents are usually clear and colorless liquids and many have a characteristic smell. The concentration of a solution is the amount of compound that is dissolved in a certain volume of solvent. The solubility is the maximal amount of compound that is soluble in a certain volume of solvent at a specified temperature.

Common uses for organic solvents are in dry cleaning (e.g. tetrachloroethylene), as paint thinners (e.g. toluene, turpentine), as nail polish removers and glue solvents (acetone, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate), in spot removers (e.g. hexane, petrol ether), in detergents (citrus terpenes), in perfumes (ethanol), and in chemical syntheses. The use of inorganic solvents is typically limited to research chemistry and some technological processes.

Some solvents including chloroform and benzene (an ingredient of gasoline) are carcinogenic. Many others can damage internal organs like the liver, the kidneys, or the brain.


The solvents are grouped into non-polar, polar aprotic, and polar protic solvents and ordered by increasing polarity. The polarity is given as the Dielectric constant. The density of nonpolar solvents that are heavier than water is bolded.

! align="center" | Solvent
! align="center" | Chemical Formula
! align="center" | Boiling point
! align="center" | Dielectric constant
! align="center" | Density



</doc>
<doc id="59418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59418" title="Inert">
Inert

In chemistry, the term inert is used to describe something that is not chemically active. The noble gases were described as being inert because they did not react with the other elements or themselves. 

No one knows that the reason that inert gases are completely inert to basic chemical reactions (such as combustion, for example), is because their outer valence shell is completely filled with electrons. With a filled outer valence shell, an inert atom is not able to acquire or lose an electron, and is therefore not able to participate in any chemical reactions. For inert atoms or molecules, a lot of energy is involved before it can combine with other elements to form compounds. A high temperature and pressure is necessary, and sometimes requires the presence of a catalyst.

For example, elemental nitrogen is inert under standard room conditions and exists as a diatomic molecule, N. The inertness of nitrogen is due to the presence of the very strong triple covalent bond in the N molecule.

Inert atmospheres of gases such as dinitrogen and argon are routinely used in chemical reactions where air sensitive and water sensitive compounds are handled.


</doc>
<doc id="59420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59420" title="Electron shell">
Electron shell

An electron shell is the outside part of an atom around the atomic nucleus. It is a group of atomic orbitals with the same value of the principal quantum number "n". 

Electron shells have one or more electron subshells, or sublevels. These sublevels have two or more orbitals with the same angular momentum quantum number "l". Electron shells make up the electron configuration of an atom. The number of electrons that can reside in a shell is equal to formula_1.

The name for electron shells comes from the Bohr model, in which groups of electrons were believed to go around the nucleus at certain distances, so that their orbits formed "shells".

The valence shell is the outermost shell of an atom in its uncombined state, which contains the electrons most likely to account for the nature of any reactions involving the atom and of the bonding interactions it has with other atoms. Care must be taken to note that the outermost shell of an ion is not commonly termed valence shell. Electrons in the valence shell are referred to as valence electrons. 

In a noble gas, an atom tends to have 8 electrons in its outer shell (except helium, which is only able to fill its shell with 2 electrons). This serves as the model for the octet rule which is mostly applicable to main group elements of the second and third periods. In terms of atomic orbitals, the electrons in the valence shell are distributed 2 in the single "s" orbital and 2 each in the three "p" orbitals. 

For coordination complexes containing transition metals, the valence shell consists of electrons in these "s" and "p" orbitals, as well as up to 10 additional electrons, distributed as 2 into each of 5 "d" orbitals, to make a total of 18 electrons in a complete valence shell for such a compound. This is referred to as the "eighteen electron rule".

Electron subshells are identified by the letters s, p, d, f, g, h, i, etc., corresponding to the azimuthal quantum numbers ("l"-values) 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc. Each shell can hold up to 2, 6, 10, 14, 18, 22 and 26 electrons respectively, or 2(2"l" + 1) electrons in each subshell. The notation 's', 'p', 'd', and 'f' originate from a now-discredited system of categorizing spectral lines as "sharp", "principal", "diffuse", or "fundamental", based on their observed fine structure. When the first four types of orbitals were described, they were associated with these spectral line types, but there were no other names. The designations 'g', 'h', and so on, were derived by following alphabetical order.



</doc>
<doc id="59421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59421" title="Wheelchair">
Wheelchair

A wheelchair is a type of chair usually used by disabled people.

A wheelchair is moved either manually (by pushing the wheels with the hands, or pushed from behind with handles by somebody who is not sitting in the wheelchair) or by automated systems such as electric motors which can be controlled by the wheelchair user (the person sitting in the chair) or by somebody walking behind or beside the wheelchair if the wheelchair user needs help to move their wheelchair. 

Wheelchairs are used by people for whom walking is difficult or impossible due to illness, injury, or disability. Wheelchairs can have extra cushions and other parts added to improve support if the wheelchair user cannot keep their body in a good sitting position, or to make the wheelchair more comfortable to sit in. The earliest record of the wheelchair in England dates from the 1670s [Oxford English Dictionary, (2nd Ed.), 1989, Vol. XX., p. 203.], and in continental Europe this technology dates back to the German Renaissance.



</doc>
<doc id="59422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59422" title="Fuel oil">
Fuel oil

Fuel oil is a fraction obtained from petroleum distillation, either as a or a residue. 

Broadly speaking, fuel oil is any liquid petroleum product that is burned in a furnace or boiler for the generation of heat or used in an engine for the generation of power, except oils having a flash point of approximately +40 °C and oils burned in cotton or wool-wick burners. In this sense, diesel is a type of fuel oil. Fuel oil is made of long hydrocarbon chains, particularly alkanes, cycloalkanes and aromatics. The term "fuel oil" is also used in a stricter sense to refer only to the heaviest commercial fuel that can be obtained from crude oil, heavier than gasoline and naphtha. 

Fuel oil in the United States is classified into six classes, according to its boiling temperature, composition and purpose. The boiling point, ranging from 175 to 600 °C, and carbon chain length, 20 to 70 atoms, of the fuel increases with number. Viscosity also increases with fuel oil number and the heaviest oil has to be heated to get it to flow. Price usually decreases as the fuel number increases. No. 1 fuel oil, No. 2 fuel oil (heating oil), and No. 3 fuel oil are referred to as distillate fuel oils, diesel fuel oils, light fuel oils, gasoil or just distillate. For example, No. 2 fuel oil, No. 2 distillate and No. 2 diesel fuel oil are almost the same thing. Diesel is different in that it also has a cetane number limit which describes the ignition quality of the fuel. Distillate fuel oils are distilled from crude oil.




</doc>
<doc id="59423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59423" title="List of large wind farms">
List of large wind farms

This is a list of large wind farms, with a generating capacity of 100 megawatts (MW) or more, which are currently operating, under construction, or proposed.

At the end of 2009, worldwide wind farm capacity was 157,900 MW, representing an increase of 31 percent during the year, and wind power supplied some 1.3% of global electricity consumption. 

Wind power is widely used in European countries, and more recently in the United States and Asia. Wind power accounts for approximately 19% of electricity generation in Denmark, 11% in Spain and Portugal, and 9% in the Republic of Ireland.

Many of the largest operational onshore wind farms are located in the USA. As of November 2010, the Roscoe Wind Farm is the largest onshore wind farm in the world at 781.5 MW, followed by the Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center (735.5 MW). The largest wind farm under construction is the 800 MW Alta Wind Energy Center in the USA. The largest proposed project is the 20,000 MW Gansu Wind Farm in China.



</doc>
<doc id="59424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59424" title="Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center">
Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center

Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center is a large wind farm with 735.5 megawatt (MW) capacity. It consists of 291 GE 1.5 MW wind turbines and 130 Siemens 2.3 MW wind turbines spread over nearly 47,000 acres (190 km²) of land in Taylor and Nolan County, Texas. 

The first phase of the Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center consisted of 213 MW and was completed in late 2005; phase two consisted of 223.5 MW and was completed in the second quarter of 2006; phase three which consisted of 299 MW, was completed by the end of 2006.




</doc>
<doc id="59425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59425" title="List of Solar thermal power stations">
List of Solar thermal power stations

This is a list of solar thermal power stations. These include the 354 megawatt (MW) Solar Energy Generating Systems power plant in the USA, Solnova solar power station (Spain, 150 MW), Andasol solar power station (Spain, 100 MW), Nevada Solar One (USA, 64 MW), PS20 solar power tower (Spain, 20 MW), and the PS10 solar power tower (Spain, 11 MW). Many other plants are under construction or planned, mainly in Spain and the USA. In developing countries, three World Bank projects for integrated solar thermal/combined-cycle gas-turbine power plants in Egypt, Mexico, and Morocco have been approved.



</doc>
<doc id="59426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59426" title="Andasol solar power station">
Andasol solar power station

Andasol 1 solar power station is a large solar thermal power plant, near Guadix in Andalusia, in the province of Granada, one of the sunniest regions in Spain. The plant will cost 310 million euros and is currently under construction. 

Andasol 1 will have a generating capacity of 50 megawatts and liquid salt heat storage will allow for electricity to be generated for seven hours after the sun has gone down. Annual electricity production will be 179 gigawatt hours which will cover the electricity demands of 50,000 households or 200,000 people. 

Andasol 1 should be completed in mid-2008 and a second plant, Andasol 2, is planned. 




</doc>
<doc id="59427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59427" title="Atlantic slave trade">
Atlantic slave trade

The Atlantic slave trade was the selling of African slaves by Europeans that happened in and around the Atlantic Ocean. It lasted from the 15th century to the 19th century. Most slaves were shipped from West Africa and Central Africa and brought over to the New World. Some slaves were captured through raids and kidnapping, although most were bought through coastal trading by the Europeans. Most historians today estimate (guess) that between 12 million and 13 million Africans arrived in the new world.(the number of people carried off from their African homesteads is much higher than that, though). Earlier estimates cited numbers as high as 25 to 40 million. The slave-trade is sometimes called the Maafa by African and African-American scholars, meaning "holocaust" or "great disaster" in Kiswahili. The slaves were one part of a three-part economic cycle—the Triangular Trade and its Middle Passage—which ultimately involved four continents, four centuries and millions of people. The Dahomian army were involved and used to trade people/slave for weapons to protect themselves. 
Christopher Colombus first came to the Americas in 1492 while seeking the West Indies which allowed for the slave trade to begin.



</doc>
<doc id="59428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59428" title="African slave trade">
African slave trade

The African slave trade was a trade in slaves, and, like most of the world, has carried on for thousands of years in Africa. The first main route passed through the Sahara. After the Age of Exploration, African slaves became part of the Atlantic slave trade, from which comes the modern, Western type of slavery. Despite being against the law, slavery continues in all parts of the world, including Africa.


</doc>
<doc id="59429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59429" title="Pocking Solar Park in Germany">
Pocking Solar Park in Germany

The Pocking Solar Park is a 10 Megawatt (MWp) solar photovoltaic plant which is among the largest in the world. Construction of the power plant started in August 2005 and was completed in March 2006. On the former military training area in the Lower-Bavarian town of Pocking, sheep are now grazing under and around the 57,912 photovoltaic modules.



</doc>
<doc id="59434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59434" title="Fractional distillation">
Fractional distillation

Fractional distillation is a way to separate a mixture of chemical compounds so that each part (called a "fraction") of the mixture can be kept apart from the other chemicals. Different chemicals have different boiling points, so fractional distillation is done by heating the mixture so that each fraction evaporates and then condenses in its own compartment.

It is a special type of distillation. Generally the component parts boil at less than 25°C from each other under a pressure of one atmosphere (ATM). If the difference in boiling points is greater than 25°C, a simple distillation is used. 

Fractional distillation is how petroleum is refined.



</doc>
<doc id="59435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59435" title="Template:Infobox OS version">
Template:Infobox OS version


</doc>
<doc id="59439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59439" title="Monte Alto solar power plant">
Monte Alto solar power plant

The Monte Alto photovoltaic power plant in Spain has a generating capacity of 9.55 megawatts peak (MWp) and will generate 14 million kilowatt-hours of electricity per year. It cost 65 million Euros [US$87 million]. 

The plant covers an area of 51 hectares on agricultural land near the locality of Milagro (Navarre) and contains 889 solar structures, of which 864 are equipped with automated solar tracking. The rest are fixed structures adapted to the terrain. 



</doc>
<doc id="59440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59440" title="Odor">
Odor

An odor or odour is a volatilized chemical compound, usually at a very low concentration, which humans and other animals perceive by the sense of olfaction. 

Odors are also called smells, which can be used to describe both pleasant and unpleasant odors. The words fragrance, scent, or aroma are used mostly by the food and cosmetic industry to describe a pleasant odor, and is sometimes used to refer to perfumes. On the other hand, the words stench, reek, and stink are used specifically to describe unpleasant odors.

Odor is a sensation caused by molecules dissolved in air. 
The widest range of odors are made up of organic compounds although some inorganic substances, such as hydrogen sulfide and ammonia, are also odorants. 
The perception of an odor effect is a two step process. 
First, there is the physiological part; the sense of the stimulus by receptors in the nose. 
After that the psychological part follows. The stimuli are processed by the region of the human brain which is responsible for smelling. 

Because of this, an objective and analytical measure of odor is impossible. 
While odor feelings are very personal perceptions, individual reactions are related to gender, age, state of health and private affectations. Common odors that people are used to, such as their own body odor, are less noticeable to individuals than external or uncommon odors. 

For most people, the process of smelling gives little information concerning the ingredients of a substance. It only offers information related to the emotional impact. However, experienced people, such as flavorists and perfumers can pick out individual chemicals in complex mixes through smell alone.

The concentrations of odorant in Germany are defined by the “Olfaktometrie” since the 1870’s. In this connection it’s about the standard method to define the sense barrier of odors on basis the thinner of concentrated odor loaded assays. Following parameters are defined: odor substance concentration, intensity of odor and hedonism assessment.

Pheromones are odors that are deliberately used for communication. A female moth may release a pheromone that can entice a male moth that is several kilometers away. Honeybee queens constantly release pheromones that regulate the activity of the hive. Workers can release such smells to call other bees into an appropriate cavity when a swarm moves in or to "sound" an alarm when the hive is threatened.

In Mammals some pathway of Pheromones identification lay in vomeronasal organ and some - in odor receptors.






</doc>
<doc id="59443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59443" title="European Ash">
European Ash

The European Ash is a tree. It is a kind of ash. It does not occur only in the north of Scandinavia. It can be found throughout Europe. It is a deciduous tree that grows to a heigh of 20–35 metres.
Ash wood is very easy to bend. It is therefore the material of choice to make Bows. Tennis rackets, and the long poles used for snooker are sometimes made from it. 

In Norse mythology, the tree Yggdrasil was a European Ash.


</doc>
<doc id="59446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59446" title="Solar power in Spain">
Solar power in Spain

Spain is the fourth largest manufacturer in the world of solar power technology and exports 80 percent of this output to Germany. Spain is one of the most attractive countries with regard to the development of solar energy, as it has the greatest amount of available sunshine of any country in Europe. 

The Spanish government wants to produce 12 percent of primary energy from renewable energy by 2010. That would mean a solar generating capacity of 400 megawatts. 
Through a ministerial ruling in March 2004, the Spanish government removed economic barriers to grid-connection of renewable energy. The widely applauded Royal Decree 436/2004 equalises conditions for large-scale thermal and photovoltaic plants and guarantees feed-in tariffs.

In March 2007, Europe's first commercial concentrating solar power tower plant was opened near the sunny southern Spanish city of Seville. The 11 megawatt plant, known as the PS10 solar power tower, produces electricity with 624 large heliostats. Each of these mirrors has a surface measuring 120 square meters (1,290 square feet) that concentrates the Sun's rays to the top of a 115 meter (377 foot) high tower where a solar receiver and a steam turbine are located. The turbine drives a generator, producing electricity. PS10 is the first of a set of solar electric power generation plants to be constructed in the same area that will total more than 300MW by 2013. This power generation will be accomplished using a variety of technologies. 
Solar thermal power plants designed for solar-only generation are ideally matched to summer noon peak loads in prosperous areas with significant cooling demands, such as Spain. Using thermal energy storage systems, solar thermal operating periods can even be extended to meet base-load needs. For example, the 50-MWe AndaSol solar trough power plants are designed with six to twelve hours of thermal storage, which increases annual availability by some 1,000 to 2,500 hours.

Construction has started on a 20MW solar photovoltaics power system in Trujillo, Cáceres, in Spain. Costing €150m, the new plant will have double the output of the 10MW Bavaria Solar Park in Germany, the previous largest ever photovoltaic (PV) system. The project will use 200 100kW units (120,000 PV modules in total), gaining the top feed-in tariff for this type of plant.

BP Solar has begun constructing a new solar photovoltaic (PV) solar cell manufacturing plant at its European headquarters in Tres Cantos, Madrid.
For phase one of the Madrid expansion, BP Solar is aiming to expand its annual cell capacity from 55 megawatts (MW) to around 300 MW. Construction of this facility is underway, with the first manufacturing line expected to be fully operational this year.

The new cell lines use innovative screen-printing technology. By fully automating wafer handling, the manufacturing lines will be able to handle the very thinnest of wafers available and ensure the highest quality.

Since the beginning of 2007, Aleo Solar AG has also been manufacturing high-quality solar modules for the Spanish market at its own factory in Santa Maria de Palautordera near Barcelona.

New building code laws in Spain are now mandating solar hot water for new and remodeled private residences, and photovoltaic to offset some power requirements for all new and remodeled commercial buildings. The new laws also reflect inceased awareness of the importance of better building insulation and the use of daylighting.

The Plataforma Solar de Almería (PSA) in Spain, part of the Center for Energy, Environment and Technological Research (CIEMAT), is the largest center for research, development, and testing of concentrating solar technologies in Europe.




</doc>
<doc id="59447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59447" title="Sensation">
Sensation

In psychology, sensation is the first stage in the biochemical and neurologic events:

It begins with a stimulus upon the receptor cells of a sensory organ, which then leads to perception, the mental state that is reflected in statements like "I see a uniformly blue wall."

A sensation that might lead to that statement could include the excitation of cone cells in the retina.

In the West, the human body's senses are divided into eight: visual, auditory, gustatory, olfactory, cutaneous, kinesthetic, vestibular, organic. The ways in which these senses are divided from one another in concept, and combined in varying ratios in perceiving the world, differs based on individual physiology, social and cultural context, and physical surroundings. The whole sensory system, including both physical sensation and interpretation (or cognition) of information from the senses, is referred to as a sensorium.

Light enters the eyes through the cornea. It then passes through the pupil, and is refracted by the crystalline lens of the eyes. Light is then channeled through the vitreous humour and then on to the retina. In the retina, there are two kinds of cells, rods and cones. Rods see black-and-white colors, and are dominant in the night (because, as physics states, there are no colors in the night, because what we see is the colors reflected from the atmosphere). Cones then, see colored structures. Cones are exceptionally abundant in the fovea. Cones are reactive to the three colors of red, blue, and green. Other colours are sensed as combinations of these.

Sound is received by the ear via the pinna, the outer ear structure, which then leads the sound inside through the external auditory meatus. After the sound passes through the meatus, it goes to the eardrum, or tympanus, then vibrates its way through the tiny ossicles, the hammer (malleus), anvil (incus), and stirrup (stapes), then to the cochlea. The cochlea converts vibration into electrical impulses which are transmitted to the brain.

Taste, or gustation, is the ability to detect sensory changes in the tongue, through the use of taste buds, situated deep into the papillae. Intriguingly, the sense called gustation is in fact comprised of varying ratios of multiple sensory systems, shifting in importance and attention as food is chewed, tasted and swallowed. These include the taste buds, the sense of touch in the structures of the mouth and digestive system, chemical sensation of irritation in the trigeminal nerve system, and unique receptors for sensing the properties of water located at the rear of the oral cavity.

Smell, or olfaction, is received by the olfactory bulb and connected to the brain by the olfactory nerve, the first cranial nerve of the brain, just after the nasal turbinates of the nose warm, strain and filter the air.

Please see the skin article for more details.

The kinesthetic sense is the sense of posture and movement. It is also referred to as proprioception.

The vestibular sense is the sense of balance. It is mediated by the action of the fluid inside the Semicircular canals.

The organic sense, per se, refers only to sensation from the internal organs, or viscera, but can, however, be expanded to include certain physiological processes, such as hunger, thirst, drowsiness and air hunger. It is also referred to as interoception.


</doc>
<doc id="59452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59452" title="Category:1824 deaths">
Category:1824 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="59453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59453" title="Category:User scn">
Category:User scn


</doc>
<doc id="59458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59458" title="Category:Political parties">
Category:Political parties


</doc>
<doc id="59459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59459" title="Category:United States political parties">
Category:United States political parties


</doc>
<doc id="59463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59463" title="Category:Physiology">
Category:Physiology

Physiology is the branch of science that describes functions in organisms.


</doc>
<doc id="59464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59464" title="Instant soup">
Instant soup

Instant soups are a kind of soup. They are produced on an industrial scale. Later they are treated in different ways to preserve them. Usually they are dried, canned, or treated by freezing. 

Packaged instant soups come in two varieties:


</doc>
<doc id="59466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59466" title="Sensation (disambiguation)">
Sensation (disambiguation)

Sensation may refer to any of the following:




</doc>
<doc id="59469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59469" title="Perception">
Perception

In psychology and the cognitive sciences, perception is the process of getting, interpreting, selecting, and organizing sensory information. 

Methods of studying perception range from essentially biological or physiological approaches, through psychological approaches through the philosophy of mind and in empiricist epistemology, such as that of David Hume, John Locke, George Berkeley, or as in Merleau Ponty's affirmation of perception as the basis of all science and knowledge.

Perception is one of the oldest fields within scientific psychology, and there are correspondingly many theories about its underlying processes. The oldest quantitative law in psychology is the Weber-Fechner law, which quantifies the relationship between the intensity of physical stimuli and their perceptual effects. It was the study of perception that gave rise to the Gestalt school of psychology, with its emphasis on holistic approach.




</doc>
<doc id="59490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59490" title="Soba">
Soba

Because noodles made out of pure buckwheat can easily fall apart when boiled, the buckwheat flour is usually mixed with binders - often wheat flour. Under the Japan Agricultural Standards regulations, the noodles must contain at least 30% buckwheat in order to be called "soba" but noodles with a high buckwheat content are seen as more desirable. The raw noodles are made by making a dough out of buckwheat flour and binder. The dough is then spread out flat. After that, strands of noodles are sliced off with a special knife. The quality of noodles is highly dependent on the skill of the maker, especially for soba noodles with high buckwheat content. The raw noodles are boiled before being served hot or cold.

In Japan, soba noodles are served in a variety of situations. They are a popular inexpensive fast food at train stations throughout Japan, they are served by exclusive and expensive specialty restaurants, and they are also made at home. Markets sell dried noodles and "men-tsuyu", or instant noodle broth, to make home preparation easy.

Some establishments, especially cheaper and more casual ones, may serve both soba and udon (thick wheat noodles) as they are often served in a similar manner. However, soba is traditionally the noodle of choice for Tokyoites. This tradition originates from the Edo period. At that time, the population of Edo (Tokyo) was considerably wealthier than the rural poor, were more susceptible to beri beri because of their high consumption of white rice which is low in thiamine. They are thought to have made up for this by regularly eating thiamine-rich soba. Every neighbourhood had one or two soba establishments, many also serving sake, which functioned much like modern cafes where locals would drop by casually.

Soba is almost always eaten with chopsticks, and in Japan, it is traditionally considered polite to slurp the noodles noisily. This is especially common with hot noodles, as drawing up the noodles quickly into the mouth acts to cool them down.

Like many Japanese noodles, soba noodles are often served drained and chilled in the summer, and hot in the winter with a soy-based dashi broth. Extra toppings can be added onto both hot and cold soba. Toppings are chosen to reflect the seasons and to balance with other ingredients. Most toppings are added without much cooking, although some are deep-fried. Most of these dishes may also be prepared with udon. Soba has a diameter of 5 mm.
Chilled soba is often served on a sieve-like bamboo tray called a zaru, sometimes garnished with bits of dried "nori" seaweed, with a dipping sauce known as "soba tsuyu" on the side. The "tsuyu" is made of a strong mixture of dashi, sweetened soy sauce and mirin. Using chopsticks, the diner picks up a small amount of soba from the tray and swirls it in the cold "tsuyu" before eating it. Wasabi, scallions, and grated ginger are often mixed into the "tsuyu".


Soba is also often served as a noodle soup in a bowl of hot "tsuyu". The hot "tsuyu" in this instance is thinner than that used as a dipping sauce for chilled soba. Popular garnishes are sliced scallion and shichimi toragashi (mixed chili powder).


Soba is traditionally eaten on New Years Eve in most areas of Japan, a tradition which survives to this day. In the Tokyo area, there is also a tradition of giving out soba to new neighbours after a house move, although this practice is now rare.

The most famous Japanese soba noodles come from Nagano. Soba from Nagano is called "Shinano Soba" or "Shinshu soba". Ni-hachi ("two-eight") soba, consists of two parts of wheat and eight of buckwheat.




"Soba" is also the Japanese word for buckwheat. Roasted buckwheat kernels may be made into a grain tea called "sobacha", which may be served hot or cold. Buckwheat hulls, or "sobakawa", are used to fill pillows.

"Soba" is occasionally used to refer to noodles in general. In Japan, ramen is sometimes called "chūka soba" or "shina soba" (both mean "Chinese noodles"). Parboiled chūka soba is stir-fried to make yakisoba. Note that these noodles do not contain buckwheat.

In Okinawa, "soba" usually refers to Okinawa soba, a completely different dish of noodles made out of flour, not buckwheat. Okinawa soba is also quite popular in the city of Campo Grande (Brazil), due to influence of Japanese (Okinawan) immigrants. It is eaten at street markets or in special restaurants called "sobarias".




</doc>
<doc id="59491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59491" title="Carmen Basilio">
Carmen Basilio

Carmen Basilio (born April 2, 1927, in Canastota, New York) was an American boxer who held the welterweight and middleweight world championship. He won the welterweight title from Tony DeMarco in 1955. He then fought Sugar Ray Robinson for the middleweight title. He won the belt from Robinson in 1957, but lost it when they fought again.

He is the uncle of former welterweight boxing champion Billy Backus.



</doc>
<doc id="59492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59492" title="Johnny Saxton">
Johnny Saxton

Johnny Saxton (born July 4, 1930 in Newark, NJ) was an American boxer who won the welterweight championship.

Saxton beat Kid Gavilan in 1954 to become the welterweight champion. The lost the title the following year to Tony DeMarco. In 1956 he won the title again by beating Carmen Basilio, but lost the title in a rematch with Basilio later in the year. He retired in 1958.



</doc>
<doc id="59493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59493" title="Weber-Fechner law">
Weber-Fechner law

The Weber–Fechner law is a proposed relationship between the magnitude of a physical stimulus and the intensity or strength that people feel. 

In one of his classic experiments, Weber gradually increased the weight that a blindfolded man was holding and asked him to respond when he first felt the increase. Weber found that the response was proportional to a relative increase in the weight. That is to say, if the weight is 1 kg, an increase of a few grams will not be noticed. Rather, when the mass is increased by a certain factor, an increase in weight is perceived. If the mass is doubled, the threshold is also doubled. 

The relationship between stimulus and perception is logarithmic. This logarithmic relationship means that if a stimulus varies as a geometric progression (i.e. multiplied by a fixed factor), the corresponding perception is altered in an arithmetic progression (i.e. in additive constant amounts). For example, if a stimulus is tripled in strength (i.e, 3 x 1), the corresponding perception may be two times as strong as its original value (i.e., 1 + 1). If the stimulus is again tripled in strength (i.e., 3 x 3 x 1), the corresponding perception will be three times as strong as its original value (i.e., 1 + 1 + 1). Hence, for multiplications in stimulus strength, the strength of perception only adds.

This logarithmic relationship is valid, not just for the sensation of weight, but for other stimuli and our sensory perceptions as well.



</doc>
<doc id="59495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59495" title="Logarithmic scale">
Logarithmic scale

A logarithmic scale is a scale of measurement that uses the logarithm of a physical quantity instead of the quantity itself. 

The logarithmic scale can be helpful when the data covers a large range of values – the logarithm reduces this to a more manageable range. 

Some of our senses operate in a logarithmic fashion (doubling the input strength adds a constant to the subjective signal strength, see: Stevens' power law). That makes logarithmic scales for these input quantities especially appropriate. In particular our sense of hearing perceives equal ratios of frequencies as equal differences in pitch.

On most logarithmic scales, "small" values (or ratios) of the underlying quantity correspond to "small" (possibly negative) values of the logarithmic measure. 

Well-known examples of such scales are:


Some logarithmic scales were designed such that "large" values (or ratios) of the underlying quantity correspond to "small" values of the logarithmic measure. Examples of such scales are:


A logarithmic scale is also a graphical scale on one or both sides of a graph where a number "x" is printed at a distance "c"·log("x") from the point marked with the number 1. A slide rule has logarithmic scales, and nomograms often employ logarithmic scales. On a logarithmic scale an equal difference in order of magnitude is represented by an equal distance. The geometric mean of two numbers is midway between the numbers. 

Logarithmic graph paper, before the advent of computer graphics, was a basic scientific tool. Plots on paper with one log scale can show up exponential laws, and on log-log paper power laws, as straight lines (see semilog graph, log-log graph).


</doc>
<doc id="59496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59496" title="Noodle soup">
Noodle soup

Noodle soup is a kind of soup. It contains the normal soup stock, together with noodles, and sometimes other ingredients. This kind of soup is very popular in Asia, where it originally came from. There are also many instant soups of this kind.

Some of the varieties are:



</doc>
<doc id="59498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59498" title="Scale (ratio)">
Scale (ratio)

One speaks of scale in context with measurement if something is represented proportionally by something else. 

The scale of a map or enlarged or reduced model indicates the ratio between the distances on the map or model and the corresponding distances in reality or the original. E.g. a map of scale 1:50,000 shows a distance of 50,000 cm (=500 m) as 1 cm on a map, and a model on a scale 1:25 of a building with a height of 30 m has a model height of 1.20 m. An alternative method of indicating the scale is by a scale bar. This can also be applied on a computer screen etc., where the ratio may vary, and also remains valid when enlarging or reducing a paper map.



</doc>
<doc id="59501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59501" title="Scale (disambiguation)">
Scale (disambiguation)

Scale could mean:

Scale (education): scale of enrollment










Scales with special uses are often named after the person who invented them:





</doc>
<doc id="59502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59502" title="Template:Country alias Iran">
Template:Country alias Iran

Iran

</doc>
<doc id="59503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59503" title="Template:Country flag alias Iran">
Template:Country flag alias Iran

Flag of Iran.svg

</doc>
<doc id="59504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59504" title="Scale (map)">
Scale (map)

A map scale is the size of an object compared to the size of the object's smaller representative on a map. This can be shown by a scale bar and a ratio 1:"n". This lets the person using the map measure a distance on the map and know what is the distance on the ground. 

People sometimes speak of a map as one with a "large scale" or "small scale". In this context scale is obviously relative. It is safe to say that a "large scale" map displays objects such that they appear relatively large. For example, an island displayed on a 1:10,000 map will appear larger than if it were displayed on a 1:25,000 map. Thus, the former is "large scale". What can be confusing is that for a map of a given physical size, say 11 by 17 inches, a "large scale" map will have a smaller geographic extent than a "small scale" map centred on the same point. Maps with a ratio of 1:50 000 or larger (for example, 1:40 000 would be larger) are considered large scale. Maps with a ratio of 1:50 000 to 1:250 000 are considered intermediate scale. Any maps with a smaller scale (for example 1:300 000) are considered small scale. (indirect quote from http://geography.about.com/cs/maps/a/mapscale.htm article titled: Map scale By: Matt Rosenberg)



</doc>
<doc id="59505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59505" title="Template:Country alias Australia">
Template:Country alias Australia

Australia

</doc>
<doc id="59506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59506" title="Template:Country flag alias Australia">
Template:Country flag alias Australia

Flag of Australia.svg

</doc>
<doc id="59507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59507" title="Template:Country alias Romania">
Template:Country alias Romania

Romania

</doc>
<doc id="59508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59508" title="Template:Country flag alias Romania">
Template:Country flag alias Romania

Flag of Romania.svg

</doc>
<doc id="59509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59509" title="Template:Country alias Brazil">
Template:Country alias Brazil

Brazil

</doc>
<doc id="59510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59510" title="Template:Country flag alias Brazil">
Template:Country flag alias Brazil

Flag of Brazil.svg

</doc>
<doc id="59518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59518" title="Midnight sun">
Midnight sun

Midnight sun is a phenomenon that exists north of the Arctic circle and south of the Antarctic circle. It means that the sun, on parts of the year, is visible the whole night long.

There are no people living permanently south of the Antarctic Circle, but in Alaska, Canada, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Russia, and some other countries it is possible to watch the Midnight sun in the summer.

The opposite of the Midnight sun is the Polar night.


</doc>
<doc id="59524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59524" title="Eight Below">
Eight Below

Eight Below is a 2006 Walt Disney Pictures movie. It was directed by Frank Marshall and written by David DiGilio. The movie was released on February 17, 2006 in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="59528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59528" title="Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono">
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono

General Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono (born September 9, 1949 in Pacitan, East Java, Indonesia), is an Indonesian retired military general and politician. He is the sixth President of Indonesia. Yudhoyono is the first president to be elected directly by voters. Yudhoyono won the presidency in September 2004. He defeated President Megawati Sukarnoputri. Yudhoyono became president on 20 October 2004.



</doc>
<doc id="59530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59530" title="Order of the Garter">
Order of the Garter

The Most Noble Order of the Garter (OG) is an English order of chivalry. It was started in 1348 by King Edward III of England. The Order is the highest level of knighthood that can be given by the English monarch. It is the world's oldest national order of knighthood. Membership in the Order is limited to those people who have done many great things for the United Kingdom.

The Order of the Garter is made up of a very small number of people. This group includes the Sovereign (the King or Queen of Britain) and no more than 25 full members. These members are called "Companions". Male companions are called "Knight Companions". Female members are called "Lady Companions". There are also a number of extra members known as "Supernumerary" Knights and Ladies. These members are usually members of the British Royal family and monarchs of other countries. Unlike other British Orders, the Sovereign is the only person who decides who is chosen to be a member of the Order of the Garter.


</doc>
<doc id="59534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59534" title="HD DVD">
HD DVD

HD DVD, also known as High-Definition DVD, is an optical disc that is able to store large amounts of data, such as high-definition videos. It was considered to be the successor of the DVD. It used to compete against the Blu-ray Disc, a similar version of an optical disc that is designed to hold large amounts of media, but all of the companies that backed it decided to only use Blu-Ray discs, so the HD DVD format is now considered dead.




</doc>
<doc id="59550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59550" title="Template:Infobox London Borough">
Template:Infobox London Borough


</doc>
<doc id="59555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59555" title="Bruges">
Bruges

Bruges (Dutch: "Brugge") is a city in the north-west of Belgium. 

It is the capital and largest city of West Flanders and in 2007 its population was 116982.

It is located at 51° 12 North, 03° 13 East.
It is a centre of tourism (thanks to its historic medieval city centre) and of commerce (thanks to its port, Zeebrugge).


</doc>
<doc id="59558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59558" title="Immortality">
Immortality

Immortality or eternal life is the idea of something which is alive that will stay alive forever. The opposite of immortality is mortality, which means a living thing can die. Right now, only a small number of living things are known to be immortal. These are mainly simple, lower forms of life like bacteria. Stories about immortal people or animals are popular in fiction and mythology, but not yet actually possible. 

Some people are using science to look for a way to make immortality possible. Other people feel that death is what defines all living things, and as a natural part of life, should not be taken away.

Insurance actuaries have calculated that even if everyone were physically immortal, the average life span would still be only be 400 years because of the "accident rate" of about five percent per year; eventually, everyone would die of a fatal accident and it would be very unusual to encounter anyone more than 800 years old. Therefore, it would seem that the only practical way to achieve actual immortality is to upload one's mind into a supercomputer to live in virtual reality. Futurists such as Ray Kurzweil believe this will become possible about the year 2045 in the technological singularity.

The color amaranth represents immortality in Western civilization, while the color peach represents immortality in Chinese civilization.



</doc>
<doc id="59559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59559" title="European Union budget">
European Union budget

The European Union (EU) has an independent parliament and civil service which is distinct from those of the 27 member states. It has to pay for on common policies throughout the EU. Therefore the EU has an agreed budget of €862 billion for the period 2007-2013. By comparison, the UK expenditure for 2004 alone was estimated at about €759 billion.

The EU has three elements to its government: the Council of Ministers, the European Commission and the European Parliament. All three take a part in setting the annual budget.

The EU obtains most of its revenue indirectly by payments from treasuries of member states. Revenue is divided into three categories.

Traditional own resources are taxes raised on behalf of the EU as a whole, principally import duties on goods brought into the EU. These are collected by the state where import occurs and passed on to the EU. States are allowed to keep a proportion of the revenue to cover administration.

VAT based own resources are taxes on EU citizens as a proportion of VAT in each member country. VAT rates and exemptions vary in different countries, so a formula is used to create the 'harmonised tax base'. The starting point for calculations is the total VAT raised in a country. 

GNI based own resources currently forms the largest contribution to EU funding. A simple multiplier is applied to the calculated GNI for the country concerned. Revenue is currently capped at 1.24% of GNI for the EU as a whole.

The largest single expenditure item is the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) at around 45% of the total budget. The second largest element is the regional policy, at 30%. Foreign policy consumes 8%, administration 6%, research 5%.



</doc>
<doc id="59564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59564" title="Wittingen">
Wittingen

Wittingen is a small town in the north of the district of Gifhorn, Lower Saxony, Germany. It has 12.268 inhabitants (2005). Wittingen is located at 52° 43′ N, 10° 44′ E and its postal codes are 29378 and 29379.

Around Wittingen, there are 26 villages:
Wittingen was first mentioned in a document of 781



</doc>
<doc id="59575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59575" title="Golden Gloves">
Golden Gloves

The Golden Gloves is the name given to competitions held every year for amateur boxing in the United States. The Golden Gloves is often the term used to refer to the National Golden Gloves competition, but it can also mean a few other amateur tournaments, including regional golden gloves tournaments and other notable tournaments such as the Intercity Golden Gloves, the Chicago Golden Gloves, and the New York Golden Gloves.

The Golden Gloves are open to all non-professional boxers age 16 and over. There is also a Silver Gloves amateur tournament, which is for young amateur male boxers age 8 to 15 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="59576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59576" title="Sonny Liston">
Sonny Liston

Charles "Sonny" Liston (May 8?, 1932? – December 30?, 1970?) was an American boxer. He held the world heavyweight championship from 1962 to 1964. He was a boxer who was disliked by much of the public because of his criminal history and rumored association with organized crime characters. However, he was a skilled boxer and gained a shot at the heavyweight title held by Floyd Patterson. He knocked Patterson out in the first round to gain the title in 1962. He defeated Patterson by another first round knockout in their rematch in 1963.

He lost the championship to Muhammad Ali (then known as Cassius Clay) when he quit in his corner before the start of the seventh round in their 1964 fight. He was then knocked out in the first round during their second fight, which happened in 1965.

Liston continued to box, but died from a drug overdose in 1970.

Boxing record


</doc>
<doc id="59577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59577" title="Buckwheat">
Buckwheat

Common Buckwheat (or buckwheat) is a plant. It is often seen as a cereal. Buckwheat is not a true grass. It is not related to wheat, because wheat "is" a true grass. Buckwheat seeds look like small beech tree seeds. Both seeds have three sides. "Beech" is also called "buck". This is how buckwheat got its name - buckwheat is a plant that is used like wheat and whose seeds look like "buck", or beech seeds.


</doc>
<doc id="59580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59580" title="Kinston Indians">
Kinston Indians

The Kinston Indians are a baseball team in Kinston, North Carolina. The team plays in the Carolina League. Professional baseball in Kinston started in 1908, and there have been many teams since then. 2007 is the twenty-first season that the Kinston team has been known as the Indians. Before that they were known as the Eagles and the Blue Jays. The Indians, or K-Tribe as they are nicknamed, play their home games in Grainger Stadium. The Indians' mascot is a dog named Scout.

The Kinston Indians won their league championship in 1988, 1991, 1995, 2004 and 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="59584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59584" title="Columbia University">
Columbia University

Columbia University in the City of New York (commonly called Columbia University) is a research university in the United States. It is mainly located in the Morningside Heights neighborhood of the Borough of Manhattan, in New York City. It is one of the eight Ivy League universities.

The university was created as "King's College" by the Church of England. It got a royal charter in 1754 from King George II of Great Britain. It was the first college in New York, and the fifth college in the Thirteen Colonies. After the American Revolution it was run by the state from 1784-1787. In 1787, the university was placed under a private board of trustees. A board of trustees runs the university to this day. 

Columbia is home to the Pulitzer Prize. For over a century, the Pulitzer has been given to people for very good work in journalism, literature and music. Columbia is where FM radio was created. The school is where the foundation of modern genetics was discovered. Its Morningside Heights campus was the first North American site where the uranium atom was split. 



</doc>
<doc id="59588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59588" title="Columbian Exchange">
Columbian Exchange

The Columbian Exchange is one of the most important events in history. It was the exchange of goods and ideas from Europe, Africa, and Asia and goods and ideas from the Americas. It also spread different diseases. It started in 1492 when Christopher Columbus arrived in the West Indies (North America).

This exchange of plants and animals changed European, American, African, and Asian ways of life. Foods that had never been seen before by people became a major part of what they ate. For example, before 1492, no potatoes were grown outside of South America. By the 1840s, Ireland was so dependent on the potato that a diseased crop led to the devastating Irish Potato Famine. The first European import to the Americas, the horse, changed the lives of many Native American tribes on the Great Plains, letting them to change to a nomadic lifestyle based on hunting bison on horseback. Italy became fanous for its Tomato sauce, made from New World tomatoes, while coffee from Africa and sugarcane from Asia became the main crops of very large Latin American plantations. Also the chili and Paprika from South America was introduced in India by the Portuguese and it is today an important part of Indian cuisine.

Before the Columbian Exchange, there were no oranges in Florida, no bananas in Ecuador, no paprika in Hungary, no zucchini in Italy, no pineapples in Hawaii, no rubber trees in Africa, no cattle in Texas, no Chili peppers in Thailand and India, no cigarettes in France and no chocolate in Switzerland. Even the dandelion was brought to America by Europeans for use as an herb. 

Before there was regular communication between the two hemispheres, the different types of domesticated animals and diseases were much larger in the Old World than in the New. This partly led to the horrible effects of Old World diseases on Native American tribes. Smallpox probably caused in the highest death toll for Native Americans. 

Barely any civilization on earth stayed the same by this global ecological exchange.

The Columbian Exchange: Plants, Animals, and Disease between the Old and New Worlds in the Encyclopedia of Earth by Alfred W. Crosby


</doc>
<doc id="59594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59594" title="Template:User fa">
Template:User fa


</doc>
<doc id="59595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59595" title="Template:User fa-4">
Template:User fa-4


</doc>
<doc id="59596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59596" title="Template:User fa-3">
Template:User fa-3


</doc>
<doc id="59597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59597" title="Template:User fa-2">
Template:User fa-2


</doc>
<doc id="59598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59598" title="Template:User fa-1">
Template:User fa-1


</doc>
<doc id="59599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59599" title="Category:User fa">
Category:User fa


</doc>
<doc id="59600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59600" title="Category:User fa-N">
Category:User fa-N


</doc>
<doc id="59601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59601" title="Category:User fa-1">
Category:User fa-1


</doc>
<doc id="59602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59602" title="Category:User fa-3">
Category:User fa-3


</doc>
<doc id="59603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59603" title="Category:User fa-2">
Category:User fa-2


</doc>
<doc id="59604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59604" title="Category:User fa-4">
Category:User fa-4


</doc>
<doc id="59606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59606" title="Ragusa">
Ragusa

Ragusa is the capital of the southernmost province of Italy, with 72,808 inhabitants in the city and more than 310,000 in the province area. 



</doc>
<doc id="59607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59607" title="Elliott Carter">
Elliott Carter

Elliott Carter (born December 11, 1908) is an American composer. He is one of the most important composers of classical music of his time. He experimented with new ideas of composition. Although he is now one hundred years old, he is still composing today. He recently composed a piece called "Interventions for Piano and Orchestra" which was given its first performance in the Symphony Hall, Boston where it was played by the Boston Symphony Orchestra conducted by James Levine with the pianist Daniel Barenboim as soloist. The same players played it again a week later on 11 December 2008 in the Carnegie Hall, New York to celebrate Carter's 100th birthday. 

Elliott Carter was born in New York. The composer Charles Ives noticed his talent and gave him encouragement, taking him to concerts. Carter studied English and music at Harvard University. He then went to Paris to study with Nadia Boulanger, returning to the USA in 1935 where he directed the Ballet Caravan. 

In 1939 he married. The couple had one son.

He wrote a ballet called "Pocahontas". In 1940 the suite from this ballet got him the Juilliard Publication Award. From then on his got many more important awards and prizes for his music.

Carter has taught music and other related subjects in a number of well-known places including the Peabody Conservatory, Columbia University, Queen’s College, New York, Yale University and the Julliard School. He has received honorary doctorates from many universities and honours from many countries.

He has not written a large number of compositions, but the ones he has written are important works.

When Carter went to study in Paris in the early 1930s Stravinsky was the most famous composer who worked there. Carter was influenced to some extent by Stravinsky’s music as well as by that of his friend Charles Ives, but he worked hard to find a style of his own. Some of his music during the Second World War is quite tonal, but his later music uses more atonality (music not in any key) and has complicated rhythms. His best known works include the "Variations for Orchestra" (1954-5); the "Double Concerto" for harpsichord, piano and two chamber orchestras (1959-61); the "Piano Concerto" (1964-65), written as an 85th birthday present for Igor Stravinsky; the "Concerto for Orchestra" (1969) and "A Symphony of Three Orchestras" (1976). 

Website about Elliott Carter at 100


</doc>
<doc id="59608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59608" title="Dubrovnik (Ragusa of Dalmatia)">
Dubrovnik (Ragusa of Dalmatia)

Dubrovnik is a city in Croatia, called until last century "Ragusa". It lies on the Adriatic Sea. About 50.000 people lived there in 2001. The old city of Dubrovnik has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Italian name of the city is "Ragusa": this sometimes leads to confusion because there is already a city named Ragusa on Sicily.

The old city of "Ragusa" was founded by romanized Illiryans after the barbarian invasions in the VI century. Ragusa of Dalmatia grew to be an important maritime republic, called "Republic of Ragusa". This republic lasted until Napoleon. times.

Ragusa originally was the only neolatin city of Dalmatia not dominated by the Republic of Venice, but after the Middle Ages started to be populated more and more by Croats and Serbs from inland areas of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The original neolatin population (the Dalmatian Italians) was reduced to the few people of the ragusean aristocracy and in the XIX nearly all the people living in Ragusa were Slavs. Ragusa of Dalmatia changed name to "Dubrovnik" (a croatian name) after 1918, when the city was entered in the newly created Yugoslavia.

Contemporary Dubrovnik is one of the main touristic destinations in Croatia. Dubrovnik is famous for its Old Town - this is an ancient fortress with large stone walls, which helped Dubrovnik people to maintain its liberty during many centuries.





</doc>
<doc id="59609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59609" title="Sichuan pepper">
Sichuan pepper

Sichuan pepper (or Szechuan pepper) is a part of a fruit of a plant, that is used as a spice. Usually the outer pods of a number of species in the genus "Zanthoxylum" are used to make the spice. Most commonly these plants are "Z. piperitum", "Z. simulans", "Z. sancho" or "Z. schinifolium". Many people in Asia grow them for the spice. Although the plants are called "pepper", they are not related to either black pepper or Chili pepper. Sichuan pepper is widely used in the cuisine of Sichuan, China, from which it takes its name, as well as Tibetan, Bhutani, and Japanese cuisines, among others.

Sichuan pepper is known in Chinese as "huājiāo" (; literally "flower pepper"); a lesser-used name is "shānjiāo" (; literally "mountain pepper" (not to be confused with Tasmanian mountain pepper). In Japanese, it is 山椒,"sanshō", using the same Chinese characters as "shanjiao". In Tibetan, it is known as "g.yer ma". In America, it is sold as fagara or flower pepper as well as Sichuan pepper.

Sichuan pepper has a unique aroma and taste. This taste is compeletely different from that of black or white pepper or chile pepper. It tastes a little like lemon. It also creates a special feeling in the mouth, a kind of numbness. This is cause by a chemical called hydroxy-alpha-sanshool. Sichan pepper contains up to 3% of this substance. 

Recipes often say that sichuan pepper should be slightly toasted, then crushed, before it is added to food. Only the hull (outer shells) are used in cooking; the seeds are ignored or thrown away. In general, Sichuan pepper is added at the last moment.

Star anise and ginger are often used with it and it figures prominently in spicy Sichuan cuisine. It is considered to go well with fish, duck, and chicken dishes, as well as with fried eggplant. It has an alkaline pH and a numbing effect on the lips when eaten in larger doses. "Ma la" (; literally "numb and hot"), a flavour common in Sichuan cooking, is a combination of Sichuan pepper and chili pepper.

It is also available as an oil (marketed as either "Sichuan pepper oil" or "Hwajiaw oil"). In this form it is best used in stir fry noodle dishes without hot spices. The preferred recipe includes ginger oil and brown sugar to be cooked with a base of noodles and vegetables, with rice vinegar and Sichuan pepper oil to be added after cooking.

"Hua jiao yan" () is a mixture of salt and Sichuan pepper, roasted and browned in a wok and served as a condiment to accompany chicken, duck and pork dishes. The peppercorns can also be lightly fried in order to make a spicy oil with various uses.

Sichuan pepper is one of the few spices which are important for Tibetan and Bhutanese cookery of the Himalayas. This is because few spices can be grown there. One Himalayan specialty is the momo, a dumpling stuffed with vegetables, cottage cheese or minced yak meat, beef or pork and flavoured with Sichuan pepper, garlic, ginger and onion. The noodles are steamed and served dry, together with a fiery sauce. Tibetans believe it can sanitize meat that may not be so fresh. In reality it may only serve to mask foul flavors. Perhaps it is because of the foul smell masking property of Sichuan pepper that made it popular in dishes made of visceral organs of slaughtered animals.

In Japan the dried and powdered leaves of "Zanthoxylum sancho" are used to make noodle dishes and soups mildly hot and fragrant. The whole leaves, 木の芽 "kinome", are used to flavour vegetables, especially bamboo shoots, and to decorate soups. The buds, seeds, flowers, and hulls are also used.

Sichuan peppercorns are one of the traditional ingredients in the Chinese spice mixture five-spice powder and also shichimi togarashi, a Japanese seven-flavour seasoning.

In Korean cuisine, two species are used: "Z. piperitum" and "Z. schinifolium".


The genus name "Zanthoxylum" or "Xanthoxylum" comes from the Greek "xanthon xylon" (ξανθὸν ξύλον), meaning "blond wood."

From 1968 to 2005, the United States Food and Drug Administration banned the importation of Sichuan peppercorns because they were found to be capable of carrying citrus canker (as the tree is in the same family, Rutaceae, as the genus "Citrus"). This bacterial disease, which is very difficult to control, could potentially harm the foliage and fruit of citrus crops in the U.S. It was never an issue of harm in human consumption. The import ban was only loosely enforced until 2002 . In 2005, the USDA and FDA lifted the ban, provided the peppercorns are heated to around 70 degrees Celsius (160 degrees Fahrenheit) to kill the canker bacteria before importation.

It is possible to come across names such as "Szechwan pepper," "Chinese pepper," "Japanese pepper," "Aniseed pepper," "Sprice pepper," "Chinese prickly ash," "Fagara," "Sansho," "Nepal pepper," "Indonesian lemon pepper," and others, sometimes referring to specific species within this group, since this plant is not well known enough in the West to have an established name.

Sichuan pepper is unrelated to black pepper (genus "Piper") and to Chili peppers, which are also widely used in Sichuan cookery.

In Nepal, where it is extensively used, it is known as "timur" ("Z. alatum").

A spice called "teppal" ("Zanthoxylum rhetsa") is used in the Indian states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Goa, by a very small community called Konkanis (they speak a language called Konkani), an official language of Goa and spoken in many parts of these three states. "Teppal" is a fruit which grows on trees full of thorns. It grows in bunches like grapes. Fresh fruits are parrot green in color and are used as a flavouring agent in many curries made with a paste of coconut, chilis, and other spices. The fruit is seasonal and available during the monsoon period. When dried, the flesh of the fruit hardens, turns to brownish black color and opens up to show the black seeds within. The seeds are discarded and the dried fruit is stored in containers for use around the year. This spice is mostly used in fish preparations and a few vegetarian dishes, with the coconut masala. This spice has a very strong woody aroma and is discarded at the time of eating the vegetable/fish curry. This tree is also called by the name "gamathe haralu" in Kannada and "koili kaya" in Malayalam.



</doc>
<doc id="59610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59610" title="Template:Chinesename">
Template:Chinesename


</doc>
<doc id="59612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59612" title="Antiparticle">
Antiparticle

Corresponding to most kinds of particle, there is an associated antiparticle with the same mass and opposite charges. 

Even electrically neutral particles, such as the neutron, are not identical to their antiparticle. In the example of the neutron, the 'ordinary' particle is made out of quarks and the antiparticle out of antiquarks.

Particle-antiparticle pairs can annihilate each other if they are in appropriate quantum states. They can also be produced in various processes. These processes are used in today's particle accelerators to create new particles and to test theories of particle physics. High energy processes in nature can create antiparticles. These are visible in cosmic rays and in certain nuclear reactions. The word antimatter properly refers to (elementary) antiparticles, composite antiparticles made with them (such as antihydrogen) and to larger assemblies of either.

In 1932, soon after the prediction of positrons by Paul Dirac, Carl D. Anderson found that cosmic-ray collisions produced these particles in a cloud chamber— a particle detector in which moving electrons (or positrons) leave behind trails as they move through the gas. 

The antiproton and antineutron were found by Emilio Segrè and Owen Chamberlain in 1955 at the University of California, Berkeley. Since then the antiparticles of many other subatomic particles have been created in particle accelerator experiments. In recent years, complete atoms of antimatter have been assembled out of antiprotons and positrons, collected in electromagnetic traps.



</doc>
