<doc id="15511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15511" title="William Howard Taft">
William Howard Taft

William Howard Taft (September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930) was the 27th President of the United States from March 4, 1909 to March 3, 1913. He is well-known for being the heaviest President in U.S. history, weighing over 350 pounds. He was also six feet tall. Taft was also the only President who also served as a Supreme Court justice.

Taft served as Solicitor General of the United States, a federal judge, Governor of the Philippines, and Secretary of War before being nominated for President in the 1908 by the man who preceded him, Theodore Roosevelt. As a Republican President, Taft was most notable for trust-busting, in which he broke up large businesses that had too much control over the economy. Taft also expanded civil service, fixed up the United States Postal Service and promoted world peace. Taft also started the tradition of the president pitching the first ball of the baseball season. Early in life, Taft had played baseball. He was a good second baseman and could hit with power 
In 1912, Theodore Roosevelt came back into politics and ran for President against William Howard Taft. Many Republicans split their votes between Taft and Roosevelt, and the Democratic opponent Woodrow Wilson won the election. 

In 1921, Taft became the 10th Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, the only President to do so. He retired from the job on February 3, 1930 due to bad health. Taft died on March 8, 1930 due to heart failure. Three days later, he became the first president to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery.



</doc>
<doc id="15512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15512" title="Underwear">
Underwear

Underwear are clothes worn under other clothes, often next to the skin. They keep outer clothes from being made dirty by sweat. They also shape the body and provide support for parts of it, and in cold weather help the wearer to keep warm. Underwear can be used to protect the wearer's modesty, as well as to make them look sexy. Special types of underwear have religious importance. Some items of clothing are made to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts and certain types of shorts can be used both as underwear and as outer clothing. If made of suitable fabric, some types of underwear can serve as nightwear or swimsuits.

Items of underwear commonly worn by women today include brassieres (bras) and panties (also known as knickers), while men wear briefs, boxer shorts or boxer briefs. Items worn by both women and men include T-shirts, sleeveless shirts, bikini underwear, thongs and G-strings. In countries where the weather is cold, long underwear can be worn to keep warm.

There are a number of different words for underwear. ', "underclothing" and ' are more formal words. 

In casual situations, underwear may be called '. In Australia, one may hear underwear being called ' or "Reginalds" (rhyming slang for "undies"), while in the UK the word ' is sometimes used. Different types of women's undergarments are known together as "lingerie" (pronounced "-zhur-ray"). They may also be called "intimate clothing" or simply '.

Words for the top half of female lingerie: "bras", obviously. Note the use of "teddy" for a one-piece close-fitting nightwear. 

Words for the bottom half of female lingerie: pants (US) versus knickers, drawers or panties, but never pants! (UK). "Briefs" is another possible. "French knickers" = knickers with frills, looser-fitting. Note the French "cache-sex" as a prototype G"-string". Other types of undergarments are spandex shorts common for women who workout. These shorts are used because it supports the behind and the back for good posture.

An "undershirt" is old word for a piece of underwear covering the torso, which has fallen out of usage in the UK, but is still commonly used in North America. "Vests" is by far the most common term in UK. "Underpants" or "pants" cover the part of the body where the sex organs are, but never "drawers". Most common words: "shorts " as in "boxer shorts" for the looser fit. "Y-fronts" for the tight fit (UK), "boxers" or "briefs" used for the same things in Canada and the USA.

These and other words for different types of underwear are set out in the table below.

Underwear is worn for many reasons. They keep outer clothes from being made dirty by sweat. Women's brassieres (bras) provide support for their breasts, and men's briefs do the same thing for the male sex organs. Some people wear corsets to make their torsos a certain shape. For more support and protection when playing sports, men often put on underwear that fits more tightly, such as jockstraps and trunks (which are a type of boxer shorts). Women may wear sports bras which give them more support. This is more comfortable, and lessens the chance of damage to the ligaments of the chest during vigorous exercises such as jogging.

In countries where the weather is cold, underwear is one more layer of clothing that helps the wearer to keep warm. Underwear can be used to keep the wearer modest – for instance, some women wear camisoles and slips (petticoats) under clothes that are see-through. A camisole is an item of clothing without sleeves that covers the top part of a woman's body, while a slip or petticoat is a kind of skirt that is worn underneath an outer skirt. On the other hand, underwear can also be worn to make a person look more sexy. It is possible to buy underwear made specially to excite another person in a sexual way, such as underwear that can be eaten (it is usually made of small sweets stuck together) and underwear with holes cut into them.

Some items of clothing are designed to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts and certain types of shorts can be used both as underwear and as outer clothing. Whether underwear can be used as outer clothing depends on a number of things, such as how warm it is indoors and outdoors, what other people in society find acceptable, fashion, and what the law allows. Some types of underwear can be used for sleeping in or as swimsuits, if they are made of suitable fabric.

Underwear can also have religious use:

The table below sets out types and styles of underwear that are commonfly worn.

A number of big clothes designers are well known for their underwear collections. Two of these are Calvin Klein and Dolce & Gabbana. There are also companies that make only underwear, such as 2(x)ist, Agent Provocateur, C-IN2, GapBody, Gilly Hicks, Ginch Gonch, La Senza, Fruit of the Loom, Lord, and Victoria's Secret.

Although most of the time underwear is kept hidden under other clothes, sometimes it is partly exposed for fashion reasons or to make other people feel sexually excited when they see it. A woman may, for instance, allow the top of her bra to peek out from under her collar, or wear a see-through blouse over it. Some men wear T-shirts underneath partly- or fully-unbuttoned shirts.

A common style among young men is to allow their trousers to sag or droop down below their waists. This fashion is called "sagging". When a person allows his trousers to sag, the waistband or a larger part of his boxer shorts can be seen. A woman wearing trousers which expose the upper back portion of her thong underwear is said to show a "whale tail".

Not wearing undergarments under one's outer clothing is known in American slang as "freeballing" for men or "freebuffing" for women. The term "going commando" is also used at times, for both sexes. People choose not to wear underwear because it is comfortable to them, to help their outer clothes (particularly those which fit their bodies more tightly) to look better, or because they find it is sexually exciting to them, or others. However, not wearing underwear can be risky, especially for women, because some have had photographs of them taken up their skirts when they did not agree to this.

Certain types of clothes, such as cycling shorts and kilts, are meant to be worn or are traditionally worn without underwear.


</doc>
<doc id="15513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15513" title="Monica Lewinsky">
Monica Lewinsky

Monica Samille Lewinsky (born July 23, 1973) is an American woman who, in 1997, became infamous for being part of a scandal between her and former President of the United States of America, Bill Clinton. She was born in San Francisco, California. The scandal involved claims that she had had a sexual relationship with President Clinton. He said they had not. In the end Clinton had to admit that sexual relations of some kind took place.

She worked in the middle 1990´s as an intern at the White House and the Pentagon.

Lewinsky experimented with designing handbags and purses for her company, "The Real Monica".

On December 14, 2006, Lewinsky graduated with a Masters of Science degree in Social Psychology from the London School of Economics. Lewinsky's thesis is titled "In Search of the Impartial Juror: An exploration of the third person effect and pre-trial publicity". According to her publicist Barbara Hutson, Lewinsky was interviewing for jobs in Britain in early 2007.

In 2009, scholar Ken Gormley had communications with Lewinsky as a part of his in-depth study of the Clinton scandals. She said that Clinton had lied under oath when asked detailed and specific questions about his relationship with her.



</doc>
<doc id="15515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15515" title="1190">
1190





</doc>
<doc id="15516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15516" title="William S. Burroughs">
William S. Burroughs

William Seward Burroughs (February 5, 1914 – August 2, 1997) was an American writer. He was a contemporary and friend of writers Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac.

Burroughs was a member of the family who owned the Burroughs Company. A family trust paid him an income, so he did not have to work a regular job. Sometimes he lived in Mexico and other countries, because he could live there in more luxury than in the United States. One favorite apartment he had in New York City was a windowless basement, nicknamed "Bill's " by his friends. Many of them were emerging writers and artists.

Burroughs told interesting, stories, but did not think he could be a writer. This changed as he came to terms with tragedy; he had killed his common law wife Joan, in an accident when they were both drunk. Burroughs began to write to work through his grief and feelings of guilt. He also abused drugs, including heroin, and it affected his writing. His first novel, "Naked Lunch", was a work.

Besides writing, Burroughs also recorded and musical works. One of his works paired him with musician Kurt Cobain.


</doc>
<doc id="15517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15517" title="1773">
1773



</doc>
<doc id="15518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15518" title="Uganda">
Uganda

The Republic of Uganda is a landlocked country in east Africa. Its capital and biggest city is Kampala, and it's currency is the Ugandan Shilling. The official languages of Uganda are English and Swahili, and the most common religion is Christianity. The President of Uganda is Yoweri kaguta Museveni.The country is situated to the East of Africa. The population of Uganda is 32 million people, and the area of Uganda is about 236,040 .
Uganda produces coffee and copper.

The literacy rate of Uganda is 68%, which means that 68 out of 100 people in Uganda who are at least 15 years old know how to read and write. 


</doc>
<doc id="15519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15519" title="Mike Judge">
Mike Judge

Mike Judge (born October 17, 1962) is an American animator, actor, writer, and producer. He is most famous for creating and starring in the animated television series "Beavis and Butt-Head" and "King of the Hill". Judge also wrote, directed, and played a small part in the 1999 movie "Office Space", and directed the 2006 movie "Idiocracy", which starred Luke Wilson. He was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador, grew up in New Mexico, and lives in Austin, Texas.


</doc>
<doc id="15520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15520" title="Missing Persons">
Missing Persons

Missing Persons was an American New Wave group. They formed in the 1980s while working with Frank Zappa.


</doc>
<doc id="15525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15525" title="Blackpool">
Blackpool

Blackpool is a seaside town in Lancashire, in the north west of England. The town is on the coast of the Irish Sea. Blackpool had a population of 142,283 as of the 2001 census.

Blackpool became important for tourism during the 19th century. It is known for its beaches and amusement parks. It is also the home to a famous international ballroom dancing competition.


</doc>
<doc id="15526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15526" title="Francisco Franco">
Francisco Franco

Francisco Paulino Hermenegildo Teódulo Franco y Bahamonde Salgado Pardo de Andrade or just Francisco Franco (December 4, 1892 – November 20, 1975). He was the dictator of Spain from 1936 to 1975, and regent of the Spanish Kingdom from 1947 to 1975. 

He was a leader of a coup d'etat against the Spanish Second Republic in 1936. After this uprising the Spanish Civil War started. Franco was supported by fascists, big businesses, the church, conservative people and Spanish nationalists. This was because the Spanish Republic had a socialist government that wanted to make businesses and the church less powerful. The Republic also set up local parliaments in the regions of Spain. Spanish nationalists thought this was wrong and would make Spain weak. Franco remained neutral during World War II as Hitler did not accept his conditions for Spain to take part in it with the fascist and nazi regimes. He let a group of volunteer soldiers join the German Army to fight the Russians between 1941 and 1943. They were called the "División Azul" (Blue Division)


</doc>
<doc id="15527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15527" title="Category:1930 deaths">
Category:1930 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15528" title="Police officer">
Police officer

A police officer is a person who works for the police.

A police officer's job is to protect the public, make sure people obey the law and make people feel safe. Not all police officers wear a uniform and patrol. Some police officers have specialist jobs, such as being a detective, a traffic officer or a dog handler. In some countries, not all police carry guns, so a police officer could choose to become an armed police officer after a lot of experience.

As a part of their job, police officers have rights that a normal person does not have. This might include the power to arrest a person who they think has committed a crime, the power to search a person, the power to stop cars and direct traffic, the power to ask for a person's name and address, the power to give out tickets or fines or the power to make a person come to court. Without these powers the police would not be able to gain any sort of control over society. 

Being a police officer can be dangerous. Police officers are sometimes killed or hurt by criminals when they are sent to incidents, so that is why the police have to carry the equipment needed to defend themselves. Police officers have the right to carry weapons, such as a gun or a baton in order to stop crime even if the weapon laws are strict and limited to the general public.

In different countries, police officers are given different equipment to deal with the crime that is in their country. All police officers are armed with weapons that they can use to defend themselves or other people that need help. Most police officers carry these things:


Police officers have to patrol and respond to emergencies as quickly as possible. Some police officers will walk on foot patrol, but often police officers will patrol in a police car. This is so that they can get to emergencies faster and carry more equipment. Sometimes officers patrol on bicycles, motorbikes or on horses because they have chosen to work in that unit.


</doc>
<doc id="15536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15536" title="Account">
Account

An account is a record of something that has happened.

The word account can be used in a few different ways:



</doc>
<doc id="15538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15538" title="Dutch people">
Dutch people

The Dutch are the people who live in the Netherlands, or those that come from the Netherlands. Often the Netherlands is called Holland, but this is only part of the Netherlands. The Dutch culture and ethnicity are also found outside of the Netherlands, with large number of Dutch living in the United States of America, South Africa, Suriname, Namibia.

Many inventors were Dutch, including Hans Lippershey, Hans Janssen, and his son Zacharias Janssen the inventors of the microscope and the telescope, and the incubator. Many famous painters have also been Dutch, among them Rembrandt van Rijn, Vincent van Gogh and Johannes Vermeer.

The definition of the Dutch ethnicity is not always clear. One can count all people living the Netherlands as Dutch, but this is often not the case. This is because many people who live in The Netherlands were not born there. There are about 15.5 million people in the Netherlands who actually have the Dutch nationality. So about 1 million people living in the Netherlands who do not even have the Dutch nationality. But even more people in the Netherlands were not born there. According to some definitions, also people who were born in the Netherlands, but who's parents were not, can not be called Dutch. This definition leaves almost 20% of the entire Dutch population to be 'foreign'.

Throughout the world there are about 30 million Dutch people:

During the last 150 years, the Netherlands saw a relative quick population growth as compared to the rest of Europe. For comparison: The Belgian population grew from 50% more inhabitants in 1850 to a third less in 2000. The population of the Netherlands grew from 3 million in 1850, to 5 million in 1900, to 10 million in 1950, to 16 million in 2000.

The Dutch society in the present can be seen as a very multi-cultural society. About 20% of the entire Dutch population is not of Dutch origin (these people are called "allochtoon" in Dutch). Even most members of the Dutch Royal family are allochtoon. This comes from the fact that the Netherlands were open to other nationalities and other religions since the Republic of the Netherlands (founded in 1588). In the 17th century, it was not odd for instance Muslims to live in Amsterdam. After the Second World War, the Dutch hired many workers from Turkey and Morocco to rebuilt the Netherlands. Many of these guest workers ("gastarbeiders") stayed in the Netherlands. Therefore, The Netherlands have a large Turkish and Moroccan community. Immigration from especially Suriname and Indonesia also lead to the multi-cultural society of the present. Recent events (like the murder on Theo van Gogh by a radical Muslim) have led to negative views on "allochtonen" by some Dutch people.

The Dutch society is also famous for its liberal views. The Netherlands were the first country to legalize same-sex marriage (the marriage of homosexuals). The Netherlands have a strong gay-rights movement. Abortion and euthanasia are also legal in the Netherlands. The Netherlands are also the only country in the world where marijuana is "gedoogd". This means it is not legal but the laws against it are not actively enforced. 

The Netherlands are one of the busiest countries in the world. Almost 16.5 million people live in the little country. That's why not many Dutch live in villages. Most Dutch people live in cities, with a city being a place with at least 25,000 people living there. 8.7 million Dutch live in "agglomerations" (urban areas which are connected to each other, a sort of metropolitan area). That's about 54% of all the Dutch people. About 15% of the Dutch people live in city's which are not in an agglomeration. The other 30% live in villages (places with less than 25,000 people).

The Netherlands are a country where bicycles are used very much. Almost 30% of all travel is done by bicycle in the Netherlands. Bicycles are used so much that thoughout the Netherlands, hundreds of bicycle paking lots ("fietsenstallingen") are built. In Amsterdam, there even is 3-story high bicycle parking lot. Train also is used very much (unlike in for instance the US). The biggest railway company (NS) has 1.1 million travellers per day. That's 7 percent of the entire Dutch population each day.


</doc>
<doc id="15547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15547" title="Liquid Paper">
Liquid Paper

Liquid Paper, also called white out and correction fluid, is used to correct mistakes made in writing on typewriters and with ink. It was originally called Mistake Out and was invented by Bette Nesmith Graham in 1951, who was working at a bank in the U.S. state of Texas at time and had trouble when she typed on the typewriter, which was part of her job. She made in product in her blender and sold it to friends starting in 1956. She sold the product to the Gillette Corporation for 47.5 million US Dollars in 1979. When she died the following year, her son, Michael Nesmith, a famous musician, formally of The Monkees inherited the fortune.

Now people still use the correction fluid, but more seldom. With more advanced technology, people have computers allowing them to backspace easily, not needing to use it. Also, there is also another recent invention of the correction tape. To use the fluid, you squeeze the bottle, and let to fluid flow out to cover the mistakes. Usually you have to shake the bottle before using it, and after using, you need to wait for it to dry for a few minutes, which is considered quite fast. Then you can write on top of the dried fluid. 



</doc>
<doc id="15548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15548" title="Doris Day">
Doris Day

Doris Mary Ann von Kappelhoff (born April 3, 1924) is an American singer, actress, and animal welfare activist. She is known for her blonde, wholesome image.


</doc>
<doc id="15549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15549" title="Jack the Ripper">
Jack the Ripper

Jack the Ripper is the name given to a unidentified serial killer, He was active during the summer and autumn of 1888 in the Whitechapel district of London, England, which was known for its overpopulation and prostitution. 

The main victims thought to be killed by the Ripper were five prostitutes:

Newspapers and police in London around this time started to get taunting letters. The letters were signed "Jack the Ripper". Other murders were reported around the same time but were not believed to be the work of Jack the Ripper.

Nobody knows who Jack the Ripper really was. Some think he might have been a doctor or a butcher because of how he killed and cut up the women, much like how a surgeon might perform surgery, or how a butcher might dissect an animal. All the murders happened on weekends, so it could have been someone who did not live in London but visited the city on weekends, or someone who worked during the week and was only free on the weekends.

The Ripper was famous for the brutality of his murders. He often mutilated his victims, usually killing them by slashing their throats open, almost to the point of decapitation, and stabbing them multiple times, especially in the abdomen. At about 23:00 on 30 August, Mary Ann Nichols was seen walking the Whitechapel Road; at 00:30 she was seen to leave a pub in Brick Lane, Spitalfields. An hour later she was turned out of 18 Thrawl Street as she was lacking fourpence for a bed, implying by her last words that she would soon earn the money on the street with the help of a new bonnet she had acquired. She was last seen at the corner of Osborn Street and Whitechapel Road, at 02:30, an hour before her death, by Nelly Holland. Nichols claimed she had made enough money to pay for her bed three times over, but had drunk it all away, it was the last time she was seen alive. an hour later, she was found lying dead in front of a gated stable entrance in Buck's Row (since renamed Durward Street), Whitechapel, her throat cut and her abdomen ripped open. nobody had seen or heard a thing, the killer struck again on 8 September, Annie chapman was seen talking to a man at about 5:30 a.m. just beyond the back yard of 29 Hanbury Street, Spitalfields. Mrs. Long described him as over forty, and a little taller than Chapman, of dark complexion, and of foreign, "shabby-genteel" appearance. He was wearing a deer-stalker hat and dark overcoat, carpenter Albert Cadosch had entered the neighbouring yard at 27 Hanbury Street seconds later, and heard voices in the yard followed by the sound of something falling against the fence. Chapman's body was discovered at just before 6:00 a.m. on the morning of 8 September 1888 by a resident of number 29, market porter John Davis. She was lying on the ground near a doorway in the back yard. Her throat was cut from left to right, and she had been disembowelled, with her intestines thrown out of her abdomen over each of her shoulders. The morgue examination revealed that part of her uterus was missing. Chapman's protruding tongue and swollen face led Dr Phillips to think that she may have been asphyxiated with the handkerchief around her neck before her throat was cut.

two weeks later, a letter was sent claimed to have been written by the killer himself. 

The letter, received on September 27 1888, was signed "Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper." The law enforcement and newspapers referred to him as the Ripper from that point on. The letter read:

"Dear Boss,
I keep on hearing the police have caught me but they wont fix me just yet. I have laughed when they look so clever and talk about being on the right track. That joke about Leather Apron gave me real fits. I am down on whores and I shant quit ripping them till I do get buckled. Grand work the last job was. I gave the lady no time to squeal. How can they catch me now. I love my work and want to start again. You will soon hear of me with my funny little games. I saved some of the proper red stuff in a ginger beer bottle over the last job to write with but it went thick like glue and I cant use it. Red ink is fit enough I hope ha. ha. The next job I do I shall clip the ladys ears off and send to the police officers just for jolly wouldn't you. Keep this letter back till I do a bit more work, then give it out straight. My knife's so nice and sharp I want to get to work right away if I get a chance. Good Luck.

Yours truly
Jack the Ripper

Dont mind me giving the trade name

PS Wasnt good enough to post this before I got all the red ink off my hands curse it No luck yet. They say I'm a doctor now. ha ha"

Elizabeth Stride and Catherine Eddowes were killed in the early morning of Sunday 30 September 1888. Stride's body was discovered at about 1 a.m., in Dutfield's Yard, off Berner Street (now Henriques Street) in Whitechapel. The cause of death was one clear-cut incision which severed the main artery on the left side of the neck. Uncertainty about whether Stride's murder should be attributed to the Ripper, or whether he was interrupted during the attack, stems from the absence of mutilations to the abdomen. Witnesses who said they saw Stride with a man earlier that night gave differing descriptions: some said her companion was fair, others dark; some said he was shabbily dressed, others well-dressed. Eddowes' body was found in Mitre Square, in the City of London, three-quarters of an hour after Stride's. The throat was severed, and the abdomen was ripped open by a long, deep, jagged wound. The left kidney and the major part of the uterus had been removed. A local man, Joseph Lawende, had passed through the square with two friends shortly before the murder, and he described seeing a fair-haired man of shabby appearance with a woman who may have been Eddowes. His companions, however, were unable to confirm his description. Eddowes' and Stride's murders were later called the "double event". Part of Eddowes' bloodied apron was found at the entrance to a tenement in Goulston Street, Whitechapel. Some writing on the wall above the apron piece, which became known as the Goulston Street graffito, seemed to implicate a Jew or Jews, but it was unclear whether the graffito was written by the murderer as he dropped the apron piece, or merely incidental.Police Commissioner Charles Warren feared the graffito might spark antisemitic riots, and ordered it washed away before dawn. The "Saucy Jacky" postcard was postmarked 1 October 1888 and received the same day by the Central News Agency. The handwriting was similar to the "Dear Boss" letter. It mentions that two victims were killed very close to one another: "double event this time", which was thought to refer to the murders of Stride and Eddowes. It has been argued that the letter was mailed before the murders were publicised, making it unlikely that a crank would have such knowledge of the crime, but it was postmarked more than 24 hours after the killings took place, long after details were known by journalists and residents of the area.

The "From Hell" letter was received by George Lusk, leader of the Whitechapel Vigilance Committee, on 16 October 1888. The handwriting and style is unlike that of the "Dear Boss" letter and postcard. The letter came with a small box in which Lusk discovered half of a kidney, preserved in "spirits of wine" (ethanol). Eddowes' left kidney had been removed by the killer. The writer claimed that he "fried and ate" the missing kidney half. There is disagreement over the kidney: some contend it belonged to Eddowes, while others argue it was nothing more than a macabre practical joke. The kidney was examined by Dr Thomas Openshaw of the London Hospital, who determined that it was human and from the left side, but (contrary to false newspaper reports) he could not determine its gender or age. Openshaw subsequently also received a letter signed "Jack the Ripper".

Mary Jane Kelly was seen with a man of "Jewish appearance". Kelly and the man headed for her room at 13 Miller's Court, Elizabeth Prater, who was woken by her kitten walking over her neck, and Sarah Lewis both reported hearing a faint cry of "Murder!" at about 4:00 a.m., but did not react because they reported that it was common to hear such cries in the East End. She claimed not to have slept and to have heard people moving in and out of the court throughout the night. She thought she heard someone leaving the residence at about 5:45 a.m. Kelly's gruesomely mutilated body was discovered the next morning lying on the bed at 10:45 a.m. on Friday 9 November 1888. The throat had been severed down to the spine, and the abdomen virtually emptied of its organs. The heart was missing.

After the murder of Mary Jane Kelly, the Ripper murders stopped suddenly. To this day, the identity of Jack the Ripper is unknown. Although many historians have different opinions and theories on who Jack the Ripper was, it will probably never be known who he was.


</doc>
<doc id="15550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15550" title="Johnny Rivers">
Johnny Rivers

Johnny Rivers (born John Ramistella on November 7, 1942 in New York City and grew up in Louisiana) is an American rock and roll musician. He was popular in the 1960s and 1970s for his songs like "Secret Agent Man", "The Poor Side of Town", "Baby I Need Your Lovin", "The Midnight Special", and "Swayin' To The Music (Slow Dancin')".



</doc>
<doc id="15552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15552" title="Doctor John">
Doctor John

Malcolm John Rebennack, Jr or Dr. John (November 21, 1940) is an American musician from New Orleans.



</doc>
<doc id="15554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15554" title="Death metal">
Death metal

Death metal is a style of heavy metal that is a very fast, brutal and energetic. It has very harsh singing. Most death metal has very fast guitar and drum beats. Almost every death metal drummer plays with two bass drums, so that they can play the bass drums faster. It is a music focused mainly on drums and guitars. The lyrics in death metal sometimes involve dark topics such as death, war and pain. Some bands choose to write words about topics, like philosophy or religion. Some bands try to write about things that other death metal bands do not write about such as ancient history. Death metal vocalists usually grunt, growl or scream.

Some artists and groups of this genre are:


</doc>
<doc id="15555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15555" title="Suffolk">
Suffolk

Suffolk is a county in England. The counties around Suffolk are Norfolk to the north, Cambridgeshire to the west and Essex to the south. The North Sea is on the east. The county town is Ipswich and other big towns include Lowestoft and Bury St Edmunds. Felixstowe is one of the largest container ports in Europe.

Suffolk is mostly flat and has very fertile soil which is good for both growing crops and grazing animals on.



</doc>
<doc id="15556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15556" title="Etymology">
Etymology

Etymology is the study of the origin and meaning of words and names. It tells us how words have changed over time, and what other languages they came from. For example, the etymology of the word "etymology" is from the Greek words ἔτυμον ("étymon", "true meaning", from "etymos" "true") and λόγος ("lógos", "word" or "study"). 


</doc>
<doc id="15557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15557" title="Mule">
Mule

A mule is a horse-donkey hybrid (a mix of two different animals). It is the child of a female horse and a male donkey. 

They are used mostly for pulling carts and transportation. Although it is extremely unlikely for a mule to become pregnant (less than 300 reported cases worldwide), it is possible.


</doc>
<doc id="15559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15559" title="Dead Sea">
Dead Sea

The Dead Sea is a lake lying between the countries of Israel and Jordan. At 418 m (1,371 ft) below sea level, it is the lowest point on the surface of the Earth. It is almost nine times as salty as the ocean 

The Dead Sea is very salty, which makes it impossible for most life to exist in it. This is the reason for its name. However, it is not completely dead, as some types of bacteria are able to live in the water. 

Because the water is so salty, it weighs more than fresh water, and a person is able to easily float in the Dead Sea without any effort. Tourists come from around the world to float in the water.


</doc>
<doc id="15563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15563" title="American Black Bear">
American Black Bear

The American black bear (scientific name "Ursus americanus") is North America's smallest and most common species of bear. Black bears are omnivores (eating both meat and plants). Black bears usually live in forested areas, but do leave forests in search of food. Sometimes they become attracted to human activity due to a lack of food. The American black bear is listed by the IUCN as Least Concern, because the species has a large global population estimated to be twice that of all other bear species combined.

American black bears usually hibernate during winter. During this time, the black bear's metabolism and heart rate both decrease in relation to one another. In fact, during hibernation, an American black bear's heart can stop for twenty seconds. The body temperature of black bears also decreases to 31 °C (88 °F) during hibernation. When hibernation is over, the black bear's body temperature returns to normal.


</doc>
<doc id="15566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15566" title="Fur">
Fur

Fur is the hair of mammals.

People use fur for clothing because it is very warm. Fur from some animals, like goats, sheep, and rabbits, can be made into felt.


</doc>
<doc id="15567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15567" title="Jackson Pollock">
Jackson Pollock

Jackson Pollock (January 28, 1912 – August 11, 1956) was an American painter. He became famous for painting in the abstract expressionist style. Pollock's most famous paintings were made by dripping and splashing paint on a large canvas. His nickname was Jack the Dripper! Because of the method, this style is often called "action painting". Pollock was helped by his wife, artist Lee Krasner, and his style was very new at the time. 

Pollock was bitter, and had serious drinking problems. He was killed in a car crash at the age of 44 in 1956. His paintings are in museums all over the world, and his work is rated very highly. Pollock has been the subject of many movies because of his interesting life. The most famous was a short documentary film directed by Hans Namuth in 1951, and the movie about his life called "Pollock", made by and starring actor Ed Harris.

Pollock was introduced to the use of liquid paint in 1936 at an experimental workshop operated in New York City by the Mexican muralist David Alfaro Siqueiros. He later used paint pouring as one of several techniques on canvases of the early 1940s, such as "Male and Female" and "Composition with Pouring I." After his move to Springs, New York, he began painting with his canvases laid out on the studio floor, and he developed what was later called his drip technique. 

Pollock described this use of household paints, instead of artist’s paints, as "a natural growth out of a need". He used hardened brushes, sticks, and even basting syringes as paint applicators. With this technique, Pollock was able to achieve a more immediate means of creating art, the paint now literally flowing from his chosen tool onto the canvas. By defying the convention of painting on an upright surface, he added a new dimension, literally, by being able to view and apply paint to his canvases from all directions. 

Later, Pollock turned to synthetic resin-based paints called alkyd enamels, which, at that time, was a novel medium. In 1956, "Time" magazine called Pollock "Jack the Dripper" as a result of his unique painting style.

Influences on his dripping technique include the Mexican muralists and Surrealist automatism. Pollock denied "the accident"; he usually had an idea of how he wanted a particular piece to appear. His technique combined the movement of his body, over which he had control, the viscous flow of paint, the force of gravity, and the absorption of paint into the canvas. It was a mixture of controllable and uncontrollable factors. Flinging, dripping, pouring, and spattering, he would move energetically around the canvas, almost as if in a dance, and would not stop until he saw what he wanted to see.

The world's highest price for a work of art is Jackson Pollock's "No. 5, 1948", which was privately sold by Sotheby's for (price adjusted) $151.2 million dollars.


</doc>
<doc id="15568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15568" title="Category:1956 deaths">
Category:1956 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15569" title="Otto Struve">
Otto Struve

Otto Struve (August 12 1897 – April 6 1963) was a Russian astronomer. He was the grandson of Otto Wilhelm von Struve and the great-grandson of Friedrich Wilhelm von Struve.
Struve's education at the University of Kharkov was interrupted by World War I and the Russian Civil War, which left him a refugee in Turkey. He went to the United States in 1921, obtained a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago and eventually became head of the astronomy department there. In 1932, he was made joint director of the University's Yerkes Observatory and McDonald Observatory (which he founded and where a telescope is named after him). Struve may be regarded as the father of modern SETI. He was one of the few eminent astronomers in the pre-Space Age era to publicly express a belief that extraterrestrial intelligence was abundant.


</doc>
<doc id="15580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15580" title="Tamerlane">
Tamerlane

Tamerlane (1336 – February 1405) was a Turkic conqueror in the 14th century. His real name is "Tīmūr bin Taraghay Barlas". He is also know by these names: Temur, Taimur, Timur Lenk, Timur-i Leng, Temur-e Lang, Amir Timur, Aqsaq Timur, and Tamburlaine.


</doc>
<doc id="15583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15583" title="Augustus">
Augustus

Augustus (Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus, 23 September 63 BC – 19 August AD 14) was the first and one of the most important Roman Emperors. He led Rome in its transition from a Republic to a great Empire. 
Octavian, as he was originally called, was the adopted son of the dictator of the Roman Republic, Gaius Julius Caesar. Octavian came into power in the Second Triumvirate. This was three men ruling over the Roman Republic. The other triumvirs were Mark Antony and Lepidus. 

All three were loyal to Julius Caesar, the assassinated dictator, killed in 44 BC. Following his death a civil war broke out across Rome, between those loyal to Caesar, and the conspirators, led by two of Caesar's killers, Brutus and Cassius.

At first, Octavian was the junior partner in the triumvirate. Lepidus was more experienced in government, and Mark Antony was a fine military leader. The triumvirate defeated Brutus and Cassius at the Battle of Philippi, 42 BC, largely due to Antony's leadership. Then they split the leadership of the Republic three ways. Antony took the east, Lepidus took Spain and part of North Africa, and Octavian took Italy.

Antony followed in Caesar's footsteps by going to Egypt and becoming Cleopatra's lover. They had three children together. His absence from Rome allowed the intelligent Octavian to build up support. 

The triumvirate broke up in 33 BC, and disagreement turned to civil war in 31 BC. Antony was defeated by Octavian at the naval Battle of Actium and then at Alexandria. He committed suicide, as did his lover, Cleopatra VII of Egypt, in 30 BC.

After winning this bloody power struggle, Octavian was voted as Emperor by the Senate following the battle of Actium in 31 BC. He took the name "Augustus" (which meant 'exalted'). He ruled until AD 14, when his stepson and son-in-law Tiberius became Emperor in his place.

During his reign, some of those who were against his government were murdered (especially those senators who wanted to keep the Roman Republic). He promised to make Rome a Republic again, but instead proclaimed himself High Priest ("Pontifex Maximus"). Many temples in the provinces set up statues of him as one of their gods. The name of the month "August" in English (and most other European languages) comes from him.

His main accomplishment was the creation of the Roman Empire, a political structure that lasted for nearly five centuries more. He first recruited and set up the Praetorian Guard.
Historians often use the Res Gestae Divi Augusti as a source about Augustus. It was written by him as an inscription for his tomb which recorded all his achievements. 

The historian Tacitus is very often used by historians as it gives the an anti-Augustan perspective whereas many other sources and histories were written about Augustus very positively (propaganda). An example of writers like these is Velleius Paterculus, Virgil, Ovid. The most fameous work of Augustan propaganda is the Aeneid

Cassius Dio presents a quite impartial account of Augustus as emperor.


</doc>
<doc id="15585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15585" title="Camel">
Camel

Camels are mammals of the Camelidae family. Camels form the genus Camelus. They are also called Afro-Asiatic Camelids. There are two living species of camels.


Camels live in deserts, where it is hot and dry. Camels have adaptations that help them live in deserts. They have a thick coat of hair that protects them from the sun. They have wide, soft feet, so they can walk a long time in the hot sand.

Several adaptations help a camel save water. When there is food and water, a camel can eat and drink large amounts and store it as fat in the hump. Then, when there is no food or water, the camel uses the fat for energy, and the hump becomes small and soft. A camel’s waste contains very little water. Even the water from the camel’s breath flows back into its mouth.

A camel has a naturally adapted thermostat - it can change its bodily temperature by six degrees Celsius either way. 
It has two sets of eyelashes, closing muscles in the nasal passages with slited nostrils, hairy ears and tough, leathery skin to protect the camels skin in vital emergencies such as a sandstorm. It has thick rubbery lips to eat dry, prickly plants and a large, haired tail to swat pests such as mosquitos and flies.

It has a long slender neck in order to reach high leaves such as palm trees, and rubbery patches on the belly and knees to protect the skin when kneeling and sitting on the hot sand. These form after five years of age.

Camels live in groups, with one male, several females, and their young calves. 

An unborn camel gestates about 12 to 13 months. There is usually one calf per birth. A camel calf can run only a few hours after it is born. Calves are weaned when they are about 1-3 years old.

In the desert, people feed camels with grass, grains, wheat and oats. When camels are travelling in the desert, food is often very hard to find. So the animal might have to live on dried leaves, seeds, and thorny twigs (without hurting their mouths). If there is not any regular food, camels will eat anything: bones, fish, meat, leather, even their owner's tent. 

Camels are ruminants. But a camel's stomach has three sections instead of four. Camels do not chew their food very well before swallowing. The first stomach stores the food that is not completely chewed. Later, this food (or cud) returns to the camel's mouth, and the camel chews it again. Then the camel swallows the cud and it goes to the other parts of the stomach to be completely digested.

Camels have been domesticated by humans for about 5000 years. They are used for riding and to carry things, and for meat, milk and wool.

As domesticated animals they are used in Africa, Asia, and since the 19th century also in Australia. About 900-1000 wild Bactrian Camels still live in China and Mongolia. There are no wild Dromedaries anymore, but there are escaped domestic Dromedaries in Australia. Today there are about 50,000 Dromedaries living wild in the Outback in Australia.

A Dromedary and a Bactrian Camel can have hybrid children that are called "Tulus" or "Bukhts". These hybrids are larger than the Dromedary or Bactrian Camel, and have either one long hump or one small and one big hump.

When a camel calf reaches one year of age, the owner often teaches it to stand and kneel on command. They also learn to carry small, light packs around. As they grow older, the size of the pack also increases.


</doc>
<doc id="15589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15589" title="15th century">
15th century

The 15th century is the century from 1401 to 1500.

Note: years before or after the 15th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15590" title="14th century">
14th century

The 14th century is the century from 1301 to 1400.

Note: years before or after the 14th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15591" title="13th century">
13th century

The 13th century is the century from 1201 to 1300.

Note: years before or after the 13th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15592" title="12th century">
12th century

The 12th century is the century from 1101 to 1200.

Note: years before or after the 12th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15594" title="Mammalogy">
Mammalogy

Mammalogy is the study of the mammals.


</doc>
<doc id="15596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15596" title="Antibiotics">
Antibiotics

Antibiotics are medicine that kills bacteria or slows the growth of bacteria. They are used to cure diseases. Antibiotics do not harm people. Penicillin is a popular antibiotic. Antibiotics started to be produced in 1939. Antibiotics can not stop a virus. Antibiotics are not the same thing as antibodies.

Today, people fear that bacteria will not be affected by antibiotics, because bacteria might become too strong. This can happen when antibiotics are used too much. If they are used a lot, some bacteria may get used to them and not be harmed by them. This is called resistance. These bacteria could then multiply and make a large colony which would not be affected by antibiotics.

Antibiotics must be used under supervision of a certified medical practitioner, because the dose and frequency is different for treating various microbes. They also can detect some side-effects and give you treatment modification.

Antibiotics are chemicals that kill or slow bacteria growth without harming body cells.



</doc>
<doc id="15598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15598" title="Category:Human issues">
Category:Human issues

Human issues are problems that the human beings (men and women) must take care of and solve.


</doc>
<doc id="15599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15599" title="Sexism">
Sexism

Sexism is discrimination based on the gender of a person -- looking down on people because they are male or female. Sexism may also include stereotyped roll of man and woman. International laws, such as Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women or Yogyakarta Principles demand to abolish any kind of sexism. And it might affect the male or female attending a party, getting a job that means being hired, joining a game, promotion, being selected and so on. 


</doc>
<doc id="15600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15600" title="Go">
Go

Go is a board game, called "I-Go" in Japanese, and "Wei-chi" in Chinese. It is played on a board, with pieces of two colors (black and white) called stones. Players take turns placing a stone of their color on intersections of the 19x19 square grid. A normal Go board has 19 rows and columns of lines. Sometimes Go is played on smaller 9x9 or 13x13 boards instead of 19x19. 

Stones do not move after they are placed, but stones with no liberties are captured and removed from the board. The goal of this game is to have more points when the game ends by placing pieces around the board to surround areas. At the end of each game each player's space (territory), prisoners or stones (depending on the rule set) and komi are counted to see who has more points. 

This game was invented in China but the specific time is not known. The historian of board games, H.J.R. Murray, said:

Its original Chinese name is "围棋" (= wei qi or wei chi). It is also popular in Japan, and its common name "Go" comes from Japanese. In Korea the game is called "baduk". In these three countries the game is an important part of the culture, like chess is in many western countries.

Go and chess are both "board games" and "strategy games", though both may be used as gambling games as well. They share a tenuous connection to the art of war, though this is most obvious in chess, which was a war game in origin. They both have no luck or secret information, unlike some other classic games like backgammon (dice are rolled) or poker and other card games which also have secret information.

There are many places to play Go on the internet, as well as local clubs and national organizations in many countries around the world.



</doc>
<doc id="15602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15602" title="Gulf War">
Gulf War

The Gulf War, or Persian Gulf War, was a conflict in 1991, between Iraq and 34 other countries, led by the United States. It started with the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq on August 2, 1990 and ended the following spring when Iraq's armies were fought away. Many of the problems caused by this war were never finished. There were 2 special operations: Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm. Operation Desert Storm started on January 17, 1991 with an air strike. The war ended on February 28, 1991.



</doc>
<doc id="15604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15604" title="Point of view">
Point of view

A point of view, viewpoint or POV, is the following:


</doc>
<doc id="15605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15605" title="Sicily">
Sicily

Sicily<sup>[p]</sup?> is an autonomous region of Italy. The capital city of Sicily is Palermo. The population was about 5,087,000 (over 5 million) in 2004. Sicily is the biggest region in the nation of Italy.




</doc>
<doc id="15606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15606" title="Donkey">
Donkey

A donkey or "ass" ("Equus asinus") is a mammal of the "Equidae" family.
It is a domesticated (tame) animal that people use for transportation and other work, such as pulling a carriage or plowing a field.

Donkeys can have hybrid children with a horse. The child of a female horse and a male donkey is called a "mule". The child of a female donkey and a male horse is called a "hinny". Mules are more common, and have been used for transportation of people and things.

Donkeys, zebras and mules all look different from horses. The biggest difference is the ears. Donkeys ears are much longer than a horse's. The necks are straighter and the croup and rump are also a different shape. The back is straighter.

The mane and tail of the donkey are rough. The mane is still and upright, almost always standing up, and the tail is more like a cow's, most of it covered with short body hair. Because their mane sometimes fly away, many donkeys wear their manes clipped short or shaved close to the neck.

Hoof shapes are different as well, donkey hooves are smaller and rounder, with more upright pasterns. The legs should have good bone, but lots of donkeys have long thin legs with tiny feet. Larger donkeys may appear opposite, with big, heavy legs and large round feet. Good legs and feet are very important for mules that are trying to find a mate. This is because a good foot is more liked than a large body on small legs and feet.

The donkey's voice is a very raspy kind, and it makes the "Aw-ee aw-ee" noise. Although most people think donkeys are a gray color, sometimes they can have stripes, dark ear marks, as well as the "Light Points". This means that it has a white muzzle and white rings around its eyes, and a white belly and inner leg.

Colors of the donkey may be from gray to brown. Or sometimes they can be black, both red and gray, creamy white, or a unique Spotted pattern. Donkeys come in lots of different sizes. Some, like the rare French donkey, has huge heads and ears, and very thick, shaggy curled black coat.

Good grass hay and pasture is usually what donkeys enjoy to eat. If the hay or grass is grained, the protein is best to be lower than 12%. However, if a donkey is overfed, it will have a "roll" on the neck. A roll is when fat bunches up and stays in a part of a donkey's body, and they usually happen on its neck or its hip. If they develop on the donkey, it will usually stay for its whole life. If the neck roll of fat gets too heavy, it will fall or "break over" to one side and never recover its balance again. This is why donkeys should not be fed too much. Most people do not like to work with donkeys. They think that donkeys are too stubborn and will kick them. However, a donkey that is nicely trained can be as easy managed as many other horses.


</doc>
<doc id="15618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15618" title="Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince">
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was written by J. K. Rowling and published on 16 July 2005. The book is the sixth Harry Potter book. 

In the sixth book Harry begins his sixth year at the magical school Hogwarts with his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. During the year he has help in his worst class by the mysterious Half-Blood Prince, he has his first romance and learns several very important facts about his enemy, Voldemort. 

The film, based on the book, was to be released on November 21, 2008, but on August 14, 2008, it was announced that the film would be pushed back to July 17, 2009. On January 8, 2009, the film was given a PG rating by the MPPA. The previous two installments, "Goblet of Fire" and "Order of the Phoenix," were rated PG-13.

The book starts at Severus Snape's house. Narcissa Malfoy is very unhappy that Voldemort has made her son, Draco, put on a mission. Voldemort is a very bad man who does not like half-blood or Muggle (non-magical) wizards and witches. He wants to kill them. Bellatrix, Narcissa's sister, and Narcissa go to Snape's house. There, Snape agrees and says he will help Malfoy complete whatever his mission is.

Headmaster Albus Dumbledore comes by Harry Potter's place to ask him to come with him. Harry says okay. They go to Horace Slughorn's house. Slughorn was the former professor of Potions over at the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He does not want to come back, but when Dumbledore shows Harry, he says okay. On the train to Hogwarts, Slughorn gets together his club again. Slughorn likes to take a back seat and has a lot of influence, or power. Harry is one of the most famous wizards ever and Slughorn wants to be his friend. When school starts, the first thing Slughorn does is recreate his old Slug Club, filled with people who have power or a good name.

The Half-Blood Prince is of great mystery to Harry. Harry finds a book with the Prince's name on it and finds that it has many helpful tips for making potions. He follows the tips and is seen as very smart to Professor Slughorn. His friend Hermione is mad that Harry is getting credit for information that he does not really know. The old professor, Professor Snape, is now teaching Defense of the Dark Arts.

Dumbledore gives private lessons to Harry. They usually involve looking into a Pensieve, which holds old memories. In flashback, Harry learns that Voldemort was the product of an unhappy witch and a Muggle father that never loved him. The witch was named Merope and she had an older brother and father that were very bad to her. They made her work and crushed her spirit. A Ministry of Magic wizard came and arrested the father and brother. Merope left the house and gave a love potion to a young man she liked named Tom Riddle.

After she was pregnant with the baby, she stopped giving him the potion and he left her. Soon afterwards, she goes to an orphanage and gives birth to Voldemort, naming him Tom Marvolo Riddle, and dies shortly afterwards. Voldemort is a very bad kid. He steals items from the other kids and uses magic against them. Dumbledore comes one night to tell him that he has magic and invites him to attend Hogwarts.

One final memory shows Voldemort trying to apply for a job at Hogwarts. Dumbledore, who was the Transfiguration teacher at the time, was just made Headmaster. Voldemort wants to be the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. Dumbledore says no. Voldemort is angry. Since then, no professor has held the Defense Against the Dark Arts job for more than a year and Dumbledore thinks it is because of this meeting.

Dumbledore tells Harry that Voldemort has six "Horcruxes," or pieces of his soul. While Voldemort has these Horcruxes, nobody can kill him. A couple of them have been destroyed. In Harry's second year, he stabbed Riddle's diary with a fang, destroying one. Before Harry's sixth year started, Dumbledore visited the old Marvolo home and found a ring and destroyed it but lost his hand as a result.

One night, Dumbledore and Harry go out to a cave area. Dumbledore thinks there is another Horcrux there. After getting there, they find a goblet. Dumbledore drinks the entire potion, which makes him woozy and dizzy. They find the locket and go back to Hogwarts, where they find that the Death Eaters and Malfoy have attacked. They take broomsticks and land at the top of one of the towers. Malfoy bursts where Harry and Dumbledore are. Harry is hiding under an invisibility cloak. Soon, other Death Eaters come up, but Malfoy cannot kill Dumbledore as Voldemort ordered him to do. Snape comes up and kills Dumbledore.

The Death Eaters all escape afterwards. Harry tries to get Snape, but Snape is too fast. When Harry tries to use some curses he found in the Half-Blood Prince's book, Snape fights back and then declares that he is the Half-Blood Prince. Later, Hermione says this is true, having found a newspaper article about a girl named Eileen Prince (a witch) marrying a man named Tobias Snape (a Muggle), making Snape a half-blood wizard.

Hogwarts holds a funeral for Dumbledore. Harry opens the locket, only to find that someone named R.A.B was there earlier and found and destroyed the Horcrux. He also says he will not be coming back to Hogwarts next year.


</doc>
<doc id="15621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15621" title="Persian language">
Persian language

Persian is the official language of Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. It is also spoken by many people in Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, immigrants from Central Asia in Russia, and in other neighbouring countries. Persian was also taught as a second language in schools in Pakistan until 2006. In the past, many of these places were parts of the Persian Empire.

Persian has many dialects. The Persian language is officially called Farsi in Iran, Dari and Farsi in Afghanistan, and Tajiki in Tajikistan. The literary language of each of these countries is a little different, but people from each country can understand each other when they have a conversation. It has taken on many French words in Iran, and many Russian words in Tajikstan.

The Persian alphabet used in Iran and Afghanistan is very similar to the Arabic one, but the language is in a different family than Arabic, so their vocabulary and grammar are very different. Since the 1930's, in the countries which used to be in the Soviet Union, like Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, Persian has been written in an alphabet that is similar to the Russian one. In the past, all Persian speakers used the one based on Arabic.

Persian is a very old language, and linguists have names for three different versions of Persian that were used in three different times. Old Persian was spoken in the first Persian empire, under the Achaemenid kings, including Cyrus and Darius the Great. This first empire started in the 6th century BC and continued until Alexander the Great conquered it. A second Persian empire, the Sassanian kings, ruled from the 2nd century AD until the conquest by the Muslim Arabs in the 7th Century, and Middle Persian, or Pahlavi, was spoken by them. The current Persian language, New or Modern Persian, was first written down in the 9th century during the Samanid empire, which was the first Muslim Persian kingdom, and was based in Central Asia. The earliest writers of New Persian included poets like Rudaki, and Ferdowsi, who wrote an epic called the "Shahname", translated as the "Book of Kings" in English. It is a very long poem, which has myths and historical stories from before the Arabs conquered Persia. Many of the other famous writers in the Persian language were poets too, such as Saadi, Hafez, Rumi, and many more. Up until today, the Persian language was a very important one for literature. After Arabic, it was the second most used language for writing in Muslim countries, especially in the East. 


</doc>
<doc id="15624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15624" title="Copenhagen">
Copenhagen

Copenhagen is the capital city of Denmark. It is also the largest city in Denmark with 1,181,000 inhabitans (2010) living in the urban area. Copenhagen is on the islands of Zealand and Amager. 

Copenhagen was built in the 12th century A.D. and got City rights in 1254. A few years later, it was destroyed nearly completely. 
In 1443, Copenhagen became the capital of Denmark.
In 1801, there were more than 100,000 inhabitants in Copenhagen first time. In the 1960's more than 700,000 people lived in Copenhagen Municipality, and today there are 528,000 inhabitants in the municipality. Near the city centre there is the famous "Freetown" Christiania"".


</doc>
<doc id="15627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15627" title="Nepali language">
Nepali language

The Nepali language is the official language of Nepal.Besides Nepal it is spoken in India, Bhutan and parts if Burma. In the Indian state West Bengal also it is an official language. This language is also know as Gorkhali Language or Khaskura. It is believed to have originated from the ancient Sanskrit language., from which it takes a lot of words. It is written in Devanagari style of writing which is similar to Hindi. It is spoken throughout Nepal and is the mother tongue of more than half of the population. It is also used by the Government of Nepal for all official purposes. In Nepal it is compulsory to study Nepali language as a subject till Grade 10 (High School). 


</doc>
<doc id="15628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15628" title="Kathmandu">
Kathmandu

Kathmandu is the capital city of Nepal. It is the largest city in Nepal. It has many Buddhist (follower of lord buddha) and Hindu (follower of bishnu brama and mahesh) temples and strange palaces. The population of the city is about 1.5 million. Kathmandu is divided into three areas;lalitpur patan and bhaktapur.


</doc>
<doc id="15629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15629" title="Nepali">
Nepali

Nepali could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="15630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15630" title="Category:Nepal">
Category:Nepal

Nepal is a country in South Asia.


</doc>
<doc id="15631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15631" title="Category:1997 deaths">
Category:1997 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15632" title="11th century">
11th century

The 11th century is the century from 1001 to 1100.

Note: years before or after the 11th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15634" title="10th century">
10th century

The 10th century is the century from 901 to 1000.

Note: years before or after the 10th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15635" title="9th century">
9th century

The 9th century is the century from 801 to 900.

Note: years before or after the 9th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15636" title="8th century">
8th century

The 8th century is the century from 701 to 800.

Note: years before or after the 8th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15637" title="7th century">
7th century

The 7th century is the century from 601 to 700.

Note: years before or after the 7th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15638" title="6th century">
6th century

The 6th century is the century from 501 to 600.

Note: the 6th century officially started in 501.


</doc>
<doc id="15639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15639" title="5th century">
5th century

The 5th century is the century from 401 to 500, according to the Julian calendar in the Anno Domini era.

Note: years before or after the 5th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15640" title="4th century">
4th century

The 4th century is the century from 301 to 400.

Note: years before or after the 4th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="15641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15641" title="Category:3rd century births">
Category:3rd century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 3rd century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="15642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15642" title="Category:3rd century">
Category:3rd century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 3rd century, which began in the year 201 and ended in the year 300.

Note that the year 300 is included in in the 4th century but is actually part of the 3rd century.


</doc>
<doc id="15643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15643" title="Zambia">
Zambia

The Republic of Zambia is a country in southern Africa. It shares its borders with the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the north, Tanzania to the north-east, Malawi to the east, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana, and Namibia to the south, and Angola to the west. It was called Northern Rhodesia and it is currently named after the Zambezi River.

The capital of Zambia is Lusaka, which is also the largest city in the country. Its current president is Rupiah Banda and has been independent since 24 October 1964. Its motto is "One Zambia, One Nation" and its national anthem is "Stand and Sing of Zambia, Proud and Free". Its official language is English.

Zambia originated from Northern Rhodesia which was a colony of Great Britain. In 1965 Zambia became an independent country. The first president was Kenneth Kaunda, who ruled Zambia for 30 years with his party UNIP. Zambia was a one party democracy. UNIP was the only legal party and all other parties were banned. 

After protests, democratic elections were held in 1991. Kenneth Kaunda lost the elections and gave away his power in a orderly manner to his successor Frederick Chiluba, a former union leader. 

Zambia is now a multi-party democracy. It has had three democratic elections since 1991. The latest presidential election was in 2008, which was won by Rupiah Banda against Michael Sata.

In the 1960's, Zambia was making a lot of money because of the copper deposits that were mined in Copperbelt province. When copper became cheaper in the 1970's, the economy got worse because people in Zambia were not making as much money from selling copper. 

Today, Zambia is a poor country. It does not have many industries. Copper is still its main export. Commercial farming in Zambia is starting to make more money.


</doc>
<doc id="15644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15644" title="Benin">
Benin

Benin is a country in Africa. It used to be called Dahomey and was a colony of France. The Fon people who live here are closely related to the people of Haiti. The official language is French, and the president is Yayi Boni.


</doc>
<doc id="15648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15648" title="Dominican Republic">
Dominican Republic

The Dominican Republic (Spanish: "República Dominicana", pronounced IPA: ) is a country on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola; the other country on the island is Haiti. Its capital, and largest city, is Santo Domingo. The language is Spanish.

The country was occupied by the United States from 1916 to 1924. The Dominican Republic is a presidential democratic republic. The country has a tropical climate but modified by elevation and the "trade winds" (winds that come from the northeast, from the Atlantic Ocean).

The Hispaniola was discovered by Christopher Columbus on 5 December, 1492 but the first time that he saw part of the present Dominican Republic was on 4 January, 1493 when he saw a headland that he named "Monte Cristi" ("Mountain of Christ"). That mountain is called now "El Morro" and is near the city of Monte Cristi.

From Monte Cristi, Columbus went east along the north coast of the island and on 16 January, after visiting the Samaná Bay, he went back to Spain. In his second trip to America, he founded the first European city in the continent, "La Isabela", near the present city of Puerto Plata.

Later, Bartholomew Columbus founded the city of Santo Domingo, the oldest permanent European city in the Americas. From here, many Spaniards went to conquer other islands (Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico); because Cuba was closer to the continent, many people move from Hispaniola to that island and then to the continent. Because of that, the population of the island grew very slowly. By the Treaty of Ryswick in 1697, Spain gave the western third of the island to France and kept the eastern part, and so the island had two different colonies: the French "Saint-Domingue" and the Spanish "Santo Domingo". In 1795, France got the whole island but they could only control the eastern part because Haiti became independent very soon. In 1809, the French government gave back the old colony of "Santo Domingo" to Spain.

On 1 December, 1821, the Spanish lieutenant governor José Núñez de Cáceres declared the independence from Spain. The new country had the name "Estado Independiente del Haití Español" ("Independent State of Spanish Haiti"). But, on 9 February, 1822, the Haitian army occupied the country and stayed for 22 years. Juan Pablo Duarte founded a secret society, "La Trinitaria", to fight for the Dominican independence. The Haitian occupation ended on 27 February, 1844, when the inhabitants of the eastern part of the Hispaniola made a new country named "República Dominicana" ("Dominican Republic"). From 1861 to 1865, the country was again a Spanish colony. On 16 August, 1863 began the "Restoration War" when the Dominicans fought to be free again. That war ended in 1865 when the Spanish left and the Dominican Republic was again an independent country.

The country was occupied by the United States from 1916 to 1924. In 1930, Rafael Trujillo became the president of the country through a coup d'État. Trujillo was a cruel dictator, killing thousands of persons, among them many Haitians. Trujillo was killed in 1961. After the death of Trujillo, Juan Bosch was elected in 1962 and became, in 1963, the first elected president since 1930. But was Bosch was in power during only seven months. In 1965, there was a civil war between those that wanted Bosch back on power and those that were opposed to him. Then the country was invaded again by the United States.

Since the end of the civil war, the presidents of the Dominican Republic have been:


The Dominican Republic is a presidential democratic republic.The government is divided in three branches: the Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary. The Executive branch is made up of the President, the Vice President and the Ministers who are called "Secretaries of State". The President is chief of state and head of government and is elected every 4 years. He nominates the cabinet. The current president is Leonel Fernández.

The Legislative branch makes the laws and is made up of the Congress, which is located in Santo Domingo, the capital of the Dominican Republic. The Congress is divided into two groups: the Senate, with 32 members (one for every province and one for the National District), and the Chamber of Deputies with 178 members.

The Judicial branch is made up of the courts of the country, including the Supreme Court of Justice.

The Dominican Republic is a constitutional democracy ruled by a president. The president is elected every 4 years. The current president is Leonel Fernández, of the PLD.

There are 3 important political parties in the Dominican Republic:

There are several mountain chains in the Dominican Republic. The four main chains, from North to South, are:


Between those mountains, there are several important valleys, such as:

There are other smaller valleys in the mountains: Constanza, Jarabacoa, Bonao, Villa Altagracia.

The four most important rivers of the Dominican Republic are Yaque del Norte, Yuna, Yaque del Sur and Ozama. There are many lakes; the largest is the "Lake Enriquillo", located in the "Hoya de Enriquillo".

The country has a tropical climate but modified by elevation and the "trade winds" (winds that come from the northeast, from the Atlantic Ocean). At sea level, the average temperature is 25 °C, with small changes from one season to another. In the highest mountains, the temperature in winter can be as low as 0 °C.

There are two wet seasons: April-June and September-November. The most dry period is from December to March. Rainfall varies greatly; eastern regions, like the Samaná Peninsula, get an average of over 2,000 mm in a year, but less than 500 mm fall in the southwest (Hoya de Enriquillo).

From June to November, hurricanes are frequent and can do much damage in the island.

The Dominican Republic has a total population, estimated for July 2009, of 9,650,054 inhabitants, for a density of 236.30 inhabitants per km². The ethnic make-up of the population is:
You can also find Asians and Arabs throughout the population.

About 64% of Dominicans live in cities and towns and 87% of people that are 15 years old or more can read and write (literacy).

The two largest cities are Santo Domingo (the capital city) with 1,817,754 inhabitants, and Santiago, in the Cibao Valley and with 908,250 inhabitants.

The Dominican Republic is divided into 31 provinces. The national capital Santo Domingo de Guzmán is in the "Distrito National" that is like a province and elects one Senator.
The provinces are:

The Dominican Republic has a mixed economy based mainly on agriculture, services (including tourism and finance), trade and money sent from the many Dominicans that live in other countries (United States, Europe). Agricultural production (mainly sugarcane, with smaller amounts of coffee, cacao, and tobacco) was the main economic activity but now is in third place after tourism and manufacturing in "zonas francas" ("free zones" where the industries do not pay taxes and all the production is sent to other countries).

Mining is also important, mainly ferronickel (nickel with iron) and gold.

The Dominican Republic suffers from poverty, with 63.3% of the population living below the poverty line in 2004. The wealth distribution is uneven: the richest 10% gets nearly 40% of national income.

The culture of the Dominican Republic, like in other Caribbean countries, is a mix of Taíno, African and European (mainly Spanish) cultures.

There are not many Taíno traditions in the modern Dominican culture; many places keep their Taíno names: Dajabón, Bánica, Haina, Yaque, Samaná, etc. Also many objects, plants and animals have a Taíno origin and their names have been included in other languages; for example: "canoa" (canoe, a small boat), "hamaca" (hammock, a simple bed), "maíz" (maize, corn), "yuca" (cassava, that comes from the Taíno word "casabe", a kind of cassava bread eaten in the Caribbean), and "batata" (sweet potato).

That mix of different traditions created a culture that is known as Creole (in Spanish: "Criolla"), common to all countries in the Caribbean, Louisiana and some parts of South America and Central America.

In the Dominican Republic, only Spanish is spoken (except for very small groups of immigrants) even though Haitian Creole is gaining importance because the massive immigration from Haiti.

The official religion is Roman Catholicism but there is freedom of religion. Protestant groups are important, representing about 15% of the total population. Each year major festivities called "fiestas patronales" are held. They are Catholic festivities in honor of the Patron saints of the towns and villages; it is a Spanish tradition to associate every town with a Catholic saint. The festivities includes church services, street parades, fire works, dance contests and other activities.

African influences have the strongest influences in Dominican culture, especially in language, religion, food, and music.

"Notes":


</doc>
<doc id="15649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15649" title="1856">
1856



</doc>
<doc id="15652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15652" title="Navassa Island">
Navassa Island

Navassa Island, or La Navase in Haitian Creole, is a small island without anyone living on it in the Caribbean Sea. It is located ninety miles south of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The United States government claims the two-square-mile island as a territory of the United States, and it is under control of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The island is also wanted by Haiti.

Some sailors sailing with Christopher Columbus named Navassa in 1504, because no fresh water could be found there.

A captain named Peter Duncan gave it to the U.S. in the late 1850s, for the purpose of guano mining. After a rebellion in 1889, and the Spanish-American War of 1898, the mining was put to an end.

With the opening of the Panama Canal in 1914, Navassa became important again, because of a lighthouse being built there. After World War II, no one lived on it again.

In 1996, Navassa's light was put out of use, and the island was transferred to the U.S. Department of the Interior. Three years later, the Fish and Wildlife Service received ownership of the island.

Navassa became a U.S. insular area in October 1857, when a representative of the Baltimore Fertilizer Company took possession of the island in the name of the United States pursuant to the Guano Act of August 18, 1856 (Title 48, U.S. Code, sections 1411-19). In 1889 the island's actual operation passed to the Navassa Phosphate Company. All operations were abandoned in 1898, when the island became effectively uninhabited.

Navassa Island is three square miles in area. Navassa lies about one hundred miles south of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, about thirty miles west of Cape Tiburon, Haiti, at the southwest entrance to the Windward Passage, east of Kingston, Jamaica. Navassa's climate is marine and tropical.

It's terrain is a raised coral and limestone plateau, flat to undulating, ringed by vertical white cliffs, approximately nine to fifteen yards high. Navassa's environment is mostly exposed rock. However, it has enough grassland to support goat herds. Dense stands of fig-like trees and scattered cactus also exist. Only one tenth of the island's land is meadows or pastures. Navassa has no ports and only off-shore anchorage.

In 1976, the U.S. Coast Guard determined that the lighthouse on Navassa was no longer of any value to the U.S. Government and was ceasing its exercise of any interest in the island. However, the U.S. Coast Guard's ceasing to administer Navassa's use did not have any bearing at all on the United States sovereignty over the island, which remained constant regardless of the administering Federal agency or office. Consequently, under the provisions of Title 43, U.S.Code, section 1458, the Department of the Interior assumed responsibility for the civil administration of the U.S. insular area.

Acting under the authority that the Secretary of the Interior delegated to him in Secretary's Order No. 3205 (January 16, 1997) and Amendment No. 1 (January 14, 1998) to Secretary's Order No. 3205 and in fulfillment of his responsibilities as the civil administrator of the United States insular area of Navassa Island, the Director of the Office of Insular Affairs advises all persons interested in visiting Navassa Island that, having made a preliminary review of the island's ecology, he has decided indefinitely not to allow visits to the island and its surrounding waters until he has received a further assessment of the island's environment and conservation status. As used in this notice, the term "surrounding waters" includes the waters surrounding Navassa Island seaward to a line twelve (12) nautical miles distant from Navassa Island's coastlines. The Director of the Office of Insular Affairs intends that nothing in this notice shall deny or impair the right of innocent passage in the waters surrounding Navassa Island.

On September 2, 1999, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service established the Navassa Island Wildlife Refuge as an overlay. As of December 3, 1999, the Office of Insular Affairs ceased to have any administrative responsibility for Navassa. A Secretary's order of that date transferred full administration of Navassa from the Office of Insular Affairs to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 



</doc>
<doc id="15661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15661" title="1648">
1648



</doc>
<doc id="15662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15662" title="Blink-182">
Blink-182

Blink-182 is a popular pop-punk band formed in 1992. The original band name was blink. They later had to add on the "182" suffix due to an Irish techno band who had the same name that had been around longer and threatened to sue the band. Although the change, fans still refer the band as just "Blink". Tom DeLonge, who played guitar, had been friends with Ann Hoppus while living in San Diego. He had often complained about wanting to start a band. Ann then introduced Tom to her younger brother, Mark Hoppus, who played bass. They later found drummer Scott Raynor to complete the trio. In 1998, midway through a North American tour, Raynor left the band to continue his education. Raynor was also rumoured as having been forced to leave the band by its remaining members, due to his drinking problem. Travis Barker, who had been drumming for The Aquabats at the time, filled in for Blink 182 on the drums to finish out the rest of the tour. Tom and Mark were so impressed that they had Barker become the bands full time drummer. Blink-182 can be known for their catchy pop-punk songs and toilet Humor (their live album especially, which contained a song consisting entirely of swear words). In February of 2005, the band announced that they were going on an "indefinite hiatus". They stated that they were going to take a break for a while. However now all three members have confirmed that they have no plans of getting back together in the future, due to DeLonge going on to create the band Angels & Airwaves and Hoppus and Barker to create the band +44.

During the 2009 Grammy Awards, the members of Blink-182 said that the band would be getting back together.

They have released 2 demos:-

Their full-length albums are:

They have also made a Greatest Hits album in 2005. That album contained two songs that had not been released in the United States before, "Not Now" and "Another Girl Another Planet". "Another Girl Another Planet" was a cover song; it was first sung by The Only Ones.



</doc>
<doc id="15666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15666" title="Doctor Who">
Doctor Who

Doctor Who is a science fiction television series. The series is about an alien time-traveller known as "the Doctor". In his space-and-time-ship, the TARDIS, the Doctor and his companions travel through space and time.

The television series ran from 1963–1989, and started running again in 2005. It is the oldest and the longest running science fiction television series in the world.

There were also two "Doctor Who" movies made in the 1960s. Peter Cushing played the Doctor in these movies. In 1996 there was a television movie starring Paul McGann. There have also been many "Doctor Who" books, comics, etc. 

The story is about a man who calls himself "The Doctor". He travels in his space-time-ship TARDIS ("Time And Relative Dimension In Space"), with which he can go anywhere in time and space. Because of an error in its "chameleon circuit", the outside of the TARDIS always looks like a 1960s-style British police box (similar to a blue telephone box), but on the inside the TARDIS is much bigger. 

The Doctor is an alien, a "Time Lord" from the planet Gallifrey. At first he traveled only with his granddaughter Susan Foreman. Later the Doctor took other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants". The Doctor and his companions travel through space and time, have a lot of adventures, and often save many people. 

An often made mistake is the name of the Doctor: Many people think that the main character is named "Doctor Who" like the series, but the character is just named "The Doctor".

"Doctor Who" was first shown in 1963. The actor William Hartnell played the First Doctor. The series went on, with different actors as The Doctor. In 1989 the series stopped. 
A television movie, also called "Doctor Who", was made in 1996. Actor Paul McGann played the Eighth Doctor, who had regenerated from the Seventh Doctor in the beginning of the movie. 
In 2005, the show started again, with Christopher Eccleston as the Ninth Doctor. 
In the "Guinness World Records", "Doctor Who" is listed as the longest running science fiction television series in the world.

The Doctor is the central character of "Doctor Who". He is an alien, a "Time Lord" from the planet Gallifrey. The Doctor often takes other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants". They are most often human; the most recent companion was Amy Pond. 

As a Gallifreyan, The Doctor looks like a human on the surface, but there are differences. One well-known difference is that he has two hearts. As a Time Lord, The Doctor can also "regenerate", if his body is badly hurt and he dies. During the "regeneration", the body is healed and renewed, which includes a different appearance and personality. The regenerated person is the same person, with the same memories and basic personality traits; but the person also looks different and a changed personality. Because of this the Doctor could be played by different actors. This made it possible for the series to be filmed over a time of forty years without having to actually "change" the character.
Very lately, Alex Urch (Bath, Somerset) went to receive an award after winning a drawing competition on the doctor who fan site.

Up until now, the Doctor has regenerated ten times, and each "incarnation" was played by a different actor.

The Doctor has been played by other actors in other media: theatre plays, parodies, etc. These are not officially part of the "Doctor Who" story.
The films "Dr.Who & the Daleks" and "Daleks' Invasion Earth 2150 A.D." star Peter Cushing as a human scientist named "Doctor Who." Shortly after it was announced that the series would return from its nineties hiatus, Richard E. Grant voiced The Doctor in an animated serial. The BBC issued press releases identifying Grant as the "ninth Doctor" but this was later disregarded by the revived BBC television series.

The TARDIS is the Doctor's time and space machine. There are different types of models, the best seen in the series is type 70 (used by the upper class time lords of Gallifrey). The Doctor's TARDIS is in fact a type 40. It can travel through time and space. It normally has a special feature, called the Chameleon Circuit. The Chameleon Circuit makes the TARDIS' outside change shape, so that it is disguised in whatever time and place it appears. The Chameleon Circuit on the Doctor's TARDIS is broken. It is stuck in the shape of a police telephone box. (Real police-boxes were like telephone boxes, except they were only used for people to call the police, if they had a problem. They were used by the police, sometimes as workstations until the 1960s.) 

The farthest the Doctor has ever travelled in the TARDIS is to the Big Bang (the beginning of the Universe) and 100 trillion years into the future (the end of the Universe)(in the episode "Utopia"). The inside of the TARDIS is much bigger than its outside (it is "dimensionally transcendental"). It has a lot of different rooms, but the most important is the "console room," where the Doctor pilots the TARDIS.

The TARDIS stands for "Time And Relative Dimension/s In Space".

The Doctor usually takes other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants". The Doctor and his companions travel through space and time, have a lot of adventures, and often save many people. 
The character of the companion was there so that the people watching the series could identify and feel close to a character. The companions were often present-time humans, so people could feel close to them, and they knew as much as the viewers. Because of this, the Doctor could explain things to his companions, and at the same time to the viewers. Almost all the Doctor's companions have been human, or human-looking aliens. Two companions were robots.

The Daleks are one of the most powerful races in the Doctor Who history and are the Doctor's worst enemies. They cry "EX-TER-MIN-ATE!" when they are about to kill someone. They look like small tanks or very large pepper pots. They first appeared in the first season episode of the series (in "The Daleks") and they were last seen in the recent episode "The Big Bang" (2010). They are not robots, but horrible aliens kept in a metal casing, because they were mutated from Kaleds by their creator Davros during a war on their planet, Skaro. They can not be easily hurt by guns as their casing reflects or destroys the bullets.

Cybermen are another of the enemies of the Doctor. In the original series they come from the planet Mondas and in the new series they come from a parallel universe. Cybermen travel across the universe taking people and turning them into machines. They stomp around saying "DELETE!" and kill by electrocution. They change their look over time but stay recognizable by "handlebars" on their heads.

The Doctor has faced them many times: the first was in "The Tenth Planet" (William Hartnell's final episode) and most recently in "The Big Bang" (Matt Smith). They are one of his worst enemies.

The Sontarans are a group of aliens that believe in war over anything else. They must face their enemy in combat because of their weak spot on the back of their neck. They have been mentioned to look like baked potatoes.

The Doctor first met them in The Time Warrior (Jon Pertwee). They have been on the show and its spinoffs repeatedly.

The Sea Devils and the Silurians lived in the time of the dinosaurs until the catastrophe of the Moon's approach drove them into hibernation. They slept longer than planned and emerged late in the 20th century. The human scientist who discovered the Silurians estimated their era incorrectly; in a later "Doctor Who" story it's said that they should have been classified as the Eocines. A second species of hibernating Earth reptiles lived primarily underwater. They were labeled "sea devils" by a frightened, superstitious construction worker who encountered them.

The Time Lords are the alien race the Doctor comes from. They have two hearts and can change their bodies when they get hurt. There are only a couple of them left, because many of them perished in the time war fighting against the Daleks. The Doctor and The Master are the only ones that we know of, aside from the Doctors Daughter who was created artificially so is not truly a Time Lord.

All of the Time Lords except the Doctor and the Master were killed in the "Time War", a very big war with the Daleks. The Doctor ended the war by blowing up his planet, Gallifrey, killing the Daleks and his own people. It has made him sad ever since.

The Master is a renegade Time Lord, and the Doctor's nemesis. Conceived as "Professor Moriarty to the Doctor's Sherlock Holmes," the character first appeared in 1971. As with the Doctor, the role has been portrayed by several actors, the first being Roger Delgado who continued in the role until his death in 1973. The Master was briefly played by Peter Pratt and Geoffrey Beevers until Anthony Ainley took over and continued to play the character until Doctor Who's "hiatus" in 1989. The Master returned in the 1996 television movie of "Doctor Who", played by Gordon Tipple in the ultimately unused pre-credits voiceover, then Eric Roberts, and in the three-part finale of the 2007 series, portrayed by Derek Jacobi, who then regenerated into John Simm at the conclusion of the episode "Utopia". More recently he appeared in the last (and two-part) episode of the Tenth Doctor.

The Doctor has been played by eleven actors so far including William Hartnell, Patrick Troughton, John Pertwee, Tom Baker, Peter Davison, Colin Baker, Sylvester McCoy, Paul McGan, Christopher Eccleston, David Tennant and Matt Smith. 

In the story, when Time Lords are dying, they "regenerate." This causes a Time Lord's body to completely change, healing itself at the same time. Each time this happens, Time Lords have a different appearance and a different personality. Even with such big changes, Time Lords do not become different people, and will keep their memories each time they "regenerate." This periodic change greatly extends their longevity.

A Time Lord is believed to only be able to regenerate 12 times. This means that Time Lords can have a total of 13 different incarnations. It is not clear if this was a law that the government on Gallifrey made or if this is just the way Time Lord bodies work.

A criminal incarnation of the Doctor was somehow spawned between his 12th and 13th lives. It tried to sacrifice the sixth Doctor so that he could obtain more "regenerations," allowing himself to live even longer.

The Master was already in his 13th life when he was introduced to the series. His 14th and 15th incarnations were obtained by taking over the bodies of innocent victims. When the character returned to the show in 2007, the Master was in his 16th incarnation. Soon he regenerates into his 17th incarnation. He later explains that the Time Lords resurrected him to be a great soldier when the Time Lords were fighting the Daleks in an event known as the Time War. It is likely that, having been resurrected, he had 12 more regenerations available to him.

A Time Lord can choose not to regenerate. It appears that the process happens all on its own when a Time Lord is dying, but it can be stopped if the Time Lord does not want to regenerate. This was seen when the 17th incarnation of the Master chose to die from a gunshot wound instead of living on as a prisoner in the Doctor's TARDIS.

A Time Lord's body makes a huge amount of energy when regenerating. There is so much of this "regeneration energy" that a Time Lord can regrow a body part that gets removed, as long as it happens soon enough after regenerating. When the Doctor regenerated into his 10th incarnation, his hand was cut off in a sword fight. Because it had been less than 15 hours since he had regenerated into this incarnation, he was able to quickly grow a new hand.

If a Time Lord has kept a part of his or her body that had been removed (like the 10th Doctor's hand, from before), it can be used to keep a Time Lord from regenerating. The 10th incarnation of the Doctor kept the hand that was cut off in the sword fight in a jar on board the TARDIS. Eventually, he was shot by a Dalek, and his body began the regeneration process. After his body had finished healing, but before his body could change into a new one, the Doctor sent all of the extra energy into the hand in the jar.




</doc>
<doc id="15667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15667" title="Concentration camp">
Concentration camp

A concentration camp is a place which a government uses to keep people who are either against that government or who it thinks are too dangerous to remain free. Sometimes these are called internment camps, where a large number of people are put in prison without a trial.

The people who are locked away in such a prison, are not usually yet found guilty of a crime, but may be politically against the leaders of a region, people who are of a certain race or religion, or non-military prisoners of war.

Many countries have used concentration camps often during wars or times of trouble and fighting.

The first concentration camps were used by the British in the Second Boer War in Africa around 1900. The families of South African men fighting against the British were put in camps to stop them from giving food and help to the fighters. Their houses and farms were burned. At least 30,000 people, mostly children, died in these camps from sickness or hunger.

Concentration camps became more famous and hated after 1936 when Nazi Germany's leader, Adolf Hitler, thought certain groups of people should be killed (including Jews, Roma people, and homosexuals) and others were politically dangerous (socialists, communists or religious persons who disagreed with the Nazis). People were often sent to these camps to work. After a few years, some camps were set up to kill people. These are now called "extermination camps" or "death camps". People were gassed, shot, or sometimes worked to death. Some of these people were given a trial, but these trials were very unfair.

The Nazi gas chambers reportedly killed up to 20,000 people a day, towards the end of World War II. Over half of the people who died in the Holocaust, died at such concentration camps, at least 1.1 million people at the camps of Auschwitz alone.

In Italy or on its occupied territories were also concentration camps which were established by Benito Mussolini (in World War II till 1943). In these concentration camps were imprisoned especially Croats, Slovenes and Jews. 

Prison camps had been in use in Russia for many years, especially in places in the Arctic or Siberia, a long way from any cities. From the 1920's under the Soviet Union many more people were sent to such camps and they were very badly treated there. One might still die there, but would most likely be used to work first. That is called a labour camp. These camps are sometimes called gulags, the Russian name for them. Anyone who was seen as a threat to the government was sent there. In 1939, there were about 1,300,000 people working as slaves in these camps. The Russian writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn wrote a book called The Gulag Archipelago by which many people realized what crimes the communist Soviet Union government had done.

In the United States during the American Civil War in the 1860's soldiers who been captured were sometimes all crowded together in bad conditions. These were meant to be prisoner of war camps with good conditions, but many men died from sickness or hunger. At Andersonville prison about 12,000 men died (out of about 45,000 who were in prison there). This camp was not meant to be so bad, and the man in charge was later tried and killed for war crimes.

During the so-called Indian Wars (1870's and later) the United States made many enemies who were Native Americans. These people were forced to leave their land and were often put into camps where they could not leave. In some cases, many people, especially children, died from hunger and sickness. These camps were called reservations, in that some land had been set aside, or reserved for the Native Americans. Again these camps were not meant to be so bad, but many things went wrong.

During World War II, the United States placed many Japanese Americans in internment camps.


</doc>
<doc id="15670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15670" title="Ribosome">
Ribosome

A Ribosome is a part of a cell that creates protein. 

A ribosome is a mixture of protein and RNA that starts its formation in the nucleolus of a cell. The nucleolus is found in the center of the nucleus. The nucleus is protected by the nuclear envelope, and lets things out through the nuclear pores. 

The job of the ribosome is to make new proteins. It does this by moving along a strand of RNA and building a protein based on the code it reads. Making a protein this way is called translation. Ribosomes are usually found in the rough endoplasmic reticulum, but can also be found throughout the cytoplasm.

The ribosome is the most important cell organelle. It is present in all cells from prokaryotes (cells without a nucleus to hold their genetic material) to eukaryotes (cells with nucleus to hold their genetic material). 


</doc>
<doc id="15672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15672" title="William Hartnell">
William Hartnell

William Henry Hartnell (January 8, 1908 – April 23, 1975) was an English actor. He best known for playing the First Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1963 to 1966.

He was born in St Pancras, London. In 1932, he was in a movie called "Say It With Music". He was in more than sixty movies. He usually played funny characters until 1944, when he was a sergeant in a movie called "The Way Ahead". After that, he played a lot of policemen and soldiers. He was the main character in a movie called "Carry on Sergeant" in 1958. From 1957 to 1961, he appeared on a television show called "The Army Game" and in 1963, gave up movies and became the first Doctor in "Doctor Who". "Doctor Who" was a new television show.

Hartnell was in "Doctor Who" for three years. In 1966 he got sick. He forgot some of his lines, and argued with the people who made the show. Then he left "Doctor Who". Patrick Troughton became the new Doctor.

Hartnell's health got worse and in December 1974, he went to hospital. On 23 April, 1975, he died in his sleep at the age of 67.


</doc>
<doc id="15674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15674" title="Patrick Troughton">
Patrick Troughton

Patrick George Troughton (March 25, 1920 – March 28, 1987) was a British actor. He played different sorts of characters and who was in a lot of movies. He is best known as the Second Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1966 to 1969. He also appeared in "Jason & the Argonauts" (1963) and "The Omen" (1976). His grandson, Harry Melling plays Dudley Dursley in the "Harry Potter" series of movies.


</doc>
<doc id="15675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15675" title="Jon Pertwee">
Jon Pertwee

John Devon Roland Pertwee (7 July 1919–20 May 1996), better known as Jon Pertwee, was an English actor. He is best known for playing the role of the Third Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1970 to 1974 and also the title scarecrow in the television children's comedy series "Worzel Gummidge".

He was a cousin of actor Bill Pertwee who played Chief Warden Hodges in the comedy "Dad's Army".


</doc>
<doc id="15676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15676" title="Tom Baker">
Tom Baker

Thomas Stewart Baker (born January 20, 1934), or Tom Baker, is an English actor. He is best known for playing the Fourth Doctor in the long-running science fiction television series "Doctor Who".

Baker was born in Liverpool. Baker's father was a sailor and was Jewish. Baker's mother was Roman Catholic. Baker originally was a monk and later worked for the Royal Army Medical Corps and as a construction worker. Baker took up acting first as a hobby, then professionally. His first big part was as Grigori Rasputin in the 1971 movie, "Nicholas and Alexandra". Baker is best known for playing the Fourth Doctor in the long-running science fiction television series "Doctor Who". He played this role from 1974 to 1981. He is famous for holding the role longer than any other actor, and his version of the role is probably the best remembered by many people. He is now famous for his role as a narrator for the comedy sketch show "Little Britain."


</doc>
<doc id="15678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15678" title="Nazi Germany">
Nazi Germany

Nazi Germany is the widely-used name given to Germany between 1933 and 1945.

This is the period when Adolf Hitler's Nazi Party controlled Germany. It is also sometimes called the "Third Reich" () which means The Third Empire. Nazis say they follow on from the first empire (the Holy Roman Empire) and the Second Empire of 1871-1918. The official name was (), the Greater (that is, bigger) German State

The name "Nazi Germany" was often used after World War II to highlight the difference between the Nazi-run country, which started the war, and the new peaceful Germany. Hitler was leader at the time.

In the late 1930's, Hitler began attacking many countries and taking over them. Later, on September 1st, 1939, he attacked Poland. With over a million troops, he easily took over Poland while losing just around 59,000 soldiers. Poland lost over 900,000.

Hitler continued on and took over France in the Battle of France. Afterwards, on October 12, 1939, Hitler sent a letter to the United Kingdom demanding they surrender and that if they do surrender, the Germans won't do anything bad to them. However, Winston Churchill, the Prime Minister at the time refused and the Battle of Britain began.

The Battle of Britain lasted throughout July to October 1940. The battle resulted in heavy losses for the Luftwaffe (German Air Force), and in early October they retreated back into Greater Germany. Hitler was unhappy and furious with the failure of the Battle and demanded that Britain be taken over one way or another. 

In 1941, Hitler gave orders to attack the Soviet Union. The attack was codenamed ""Operation Barbarossa"" and lasted from June 22 to December 5, 1941, until Hitler's soldiers couldn't last longer there. Russia was a freezing cold place and many soldiers got sick from the cold weather. Hitler lost 250,000 men, over 2,000 aircraft and over 2,500 tanks lost. Hitler, although a good politician, had not thought this plan through and ended up losing over 20% of his army of 3.9 million. 

After that, the United States, Britain, France, and the Soviet Union teamed up and fought Hitler. In May 1945 the war was over and Hitler killed himself. Nazi Germany was taken over by the four nations.


</doc>
<doc id="15707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15707" title="U.S. state">
U.S. state

A U.S. state is one of the states of the United States of America. Four states (Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky) use the term "commonwealth" because they called themselves that when the United States was first formed, but this is only tradition and they are still states.



</doc>
<doc id="15708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15708" title="Jim Reeves">
Jim Reeves

James Travis "Jim" Reeves (August 20, 1923 in Galloway, Texas - July 31, 1964 in Nashville, Tennessee) was an American country singer. He died in a plane crash.


</doc>
<doc id="15709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15709" title="Dusty Springfield">
Dusty Springfield

Dusty Springfield (Mary Isabel Catherine Bernadette O'Brien, 16 April 1939 – 2 March 1999) was a British singer of pop music. She recorded over 200 songs and her career lasted over 30 years. She died of breast cancer.


</doc>
<doc id="15711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711" title="The Offspring">
The Offspring

The Offspring is a punk group formed in 1984 in Garden Grove, California. Their music has covered both punk rock and pop punk. 


The band was founded by Dexter Holland and Greg Kriesel after a concert of Social Distortion as "Manic Subsidal". As soon as Kevin "Noodles" Wassermann joined the band as their second guitarist in 1985, they changed their name to "The Offspring".

It would not be until ten years after forming that The Offspring saw its first piece of commercial success in its third album, "Smash", which was released in 1994. Regarded by many as The Offspring's classic release, and Epitaph Records' best-selling album, "Smash" produced four successful hit singles: "Come Out and Play" (which reached #1 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart), "Self Esteem", "Gotta Get Away" and the radio-only single "Bad Habit". From there, The Offspring became one of the most important punk bands of the 1990s, along with ALL, Bad Religion, Face to Face, Green Day, Guttermouth, Lagwagon, NOFX, Pennywise, Rancid, Social Distortion, The Vandals, and many others.

Their most recent album was released in June 2008. The exact date of release depended on the country/region.



</doc>
<doc id="15712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15712" title="Aretha Franklin">
Aretha Franklin

Aretha Louise Franklin (born March 25, 1942) is an American soul and R&B singer. She is called the "Queen of Soul". She is best known for her songs "Respect", "Think", "Chain of Fools", and "(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman".

Aretha Louise Franklin was born at a two-room house in Memphis located at 406 Lucy St. She was the third of four children born to Barbara (née Siggers) and C.L. Franklin and the fifth of six overall in between past relationships by her parents. Franklin's family moved to Buffalo, when Franklin was two, and then by four, had settled in Detroit. Following the move to Detroit, Franklin's parents, who had a troubled marriage, split. Due to her father's work as a Baptist minister, Franklin was primarily raised by her grandmother, Rachel. Franklin suffered a tragedy when her mother died in Buffalo when Aretha was ten. Franklin sang in church at an early age and learned how to play piano by ear. By her late preteens, Franklin was regularly singing solo numbers in her father's New Bethel Baptist Church. Franklin's father, C.L. (short for Clarence LaVaughn), was a respected and popular preacher. Franklin grew up with local and national celebrities hanging out at her father's home including gospel greats Albertina Walker and her group The Caravans, Mahalia Jackson and Clara Ward, three women who played a pivotal role in her vocal development as a child.
Franklin is one of the most honored artists by the Grammy Awards, with 18 competitive Grammys and two honorary Grammys. She had 20 #1 singles on the Billboard R&B Singles Chart and two #1 hits on the Billboard Hot 100: "Respect" (1967) and "I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me)" (1987), a duet with George Michael. Since 1961, she had a total of 45 Top 40 hits on the Billboard Hot 100. She also had 14 singles that sold more than one million – more than any other female artist. Between 1967 and 1982 she had 10 #1 R&B albums – more than any other female artist. 

Rolling Stone magazine ranked her at top of its list "The Greatest Singers of All Time" In 2005, she was awarded The Presidential Medal of Freedom by President George W. Bush. On February 6, 2006, she performed, along with Aaron Neville, "The Star-Spangled Banner" at Super Bowl XL. The same year she got a honorary Doctor of Music degree by the Berklee College of Music.2010, Franklin received an Honorary Doctorate in Music from Yale University.

In 1987, Franklin became the first female artist to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. She was the only featured singer at the 2009 presidential inauguration of Barack Obama.


</doc>
<doc id="15717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15717" title="Tomato">
Tomato

Tomato is a red fruit. It is shiny and smooth, and has many small seeds. The tomato is green when it is unripe. It slowly changes color from green to red as it gets more ripe. There are many different types of tomatoes. Most tomatoes are red, but some special kinds are yellow or orange when they are ripe. Also, some tomatoes are as small as strawberries, and some will become as big as apples. Tomatoes are used a lot in Italian food. They are also used to make ketchup. Sometimes, people mistake it for a vegetable.



</doc>
<doc id="15719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15719" title="Pineapple">
Pineapple

Pineapple is a plant and a fruit. It is from Brazil, Bolivia, and Paraguay, but is grown as a crop in other tropical areas, most famously in Hawaii. The plant is a short (1–1.5 m) with 30 or more trough-shaped, pointed leaves surrounding a thick stem. The fruit is is slightly acidic and very tasty, some people like it on pizza or on ice cream.


</doc>
<doc id="15721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15721" title="Pear">
Pear

Pear is a fruit that resembles a teardrop. Ripe pears have a flavor that is best when it is cool. They are juicy. Pears do not ripen well on trees. They can be soft in the center. It is harvested when it is fully ready to be picked. They can be baked, canned or frozen. They can be made into jams, jellies or juice. They can also be made into pies and put into salads or baby food. Pear trees grow on heavy soil. It is eighty three percent water. It has a green or red skin. The pear came from Europe, Africa and Asia.

Pears are in the subfamily Maloideae with apples. It is a subfamily of the family "Rosaceae". 



</doc>
<doc id="15723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15723" title="Melon">
Melon

A melon is a word used for a number of members of fruit in the Cucurbitaceae family.

The origin of the melon as we know it today is rather shrouded in mystery. Of a surety, they originated in Asia and Africa rather than in the US, and brought to England around the sixteenth century AD. Melons were first introduced to the New World by Columbus during his second expedition. They were part of rations aboard the ships to help prevent scurvy in sailors. Once his men had eaten them and discarded the seeds, the crop quickly took hold in Haiti and spread from there. Seeds were also brought to California by Spanish Conquistadors. Navajos were farming the fruit by the 1800s, from seeds brought from Latin America. However, melons did not gain prominence as a common food until it was brought again during the slave trade. 

The melon belongs to the Kingdom Plantae, and is classified as a fruit, though in cooking it is used as both a fruit and a vegetable. Its genus and species are both Cucunis. Within these groups, they are also distinguished by their Latin names into two groups, Cucumis (muskmelons), and Citrullus (watermelons.). Aside from these classifications, they are also separated into many varieties. Exactly how many varieties is unknown. Some biblical accounts say that there are thousands, and others far fewer. The three most common are the watermelon, cantaloupe, and honeydew. The cantaloupe, also called a muskmelon, belongs to the Cucumis family. It has beige, netted skin and sweet orange flesh that is high in beta carotene. Watermelons have green, striped skin that free of netting and a moist red interior sprinkled with black and white seeds.

Other types lean toward the exotic, such as the Crenshaw. A hybrid between the casaba and the Persian melon, Crenshaws have a distinct spicy flavor. Still stranger is the melon known as Santa Claus. It is known as such because it matures in December, in Brazil and Costa Rica. The vine on which it grows is eight to ten feet in length. The flesh is crisp, and varies in color from yellow to green to white.

Melons are a highly nutritious food. It has been touted for centuries that they have numerous medicinal properties. The seeds of cantaloupe were used in China to moderate fevers and the digestive system. Elsewhere, seeds were pulverized and used to treat tuberculosis. Cantaloupes are particularly beneficial to people with heart disease, as they contain large of amounts of an anticoagulant known as adenosine. They also contain high levels of potassium, which benefits those with high blood pressure. Due to their high water content, all melons are considered diuretics. 

There is also evidence that suggests that consumption of melons can lower the risk of cancer. USDA researches have discovers that melons contain lycopene, an antioxidant found in a select group of fruits and vegetables. Lycopene treats and prevents cancer by trapping free-radicals in cells.

Member of the gourd and pumpkin family, melons are notoriously “promiscuous,” meaning that they must be kept separate from other melons due to the fact that they readily pollinate each other. They are not particularly hardy, nor are they very frail. They require about four months of warm weather, and like lots of direct sunlight. Unlike some vegetables, indoor germination with plans to transplant outside does not work well. Melons simply will not grow well that way. For best results, seeding them outdoors in early may works very well. Since they are a vine fruit, they require lots of space to spread out; some dwarf or midget varieties can do well in planters, such as large truck tires. No matter how you plant them, melons must be kept warm. If the temperatures drop below fifty regularly, the result will be small, bitter fruit. Two other requirements are fertile soil and lots of water. Good dirt is imperative to grow melons. These fruits also require copious amounts of water. However, as fruits grow nearer to harvest, it is recommended to cease watering for one week prior to picking. This will allow the sugars to develop.


</doc>
<doc id="15724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15724" title="Raspberry">
Raspberry

A raspberry is an aggreate fruit, meaning it is many fruits joined together.

It typically grows in forest clearings or fields where fire or wood-cutting has produced open space. The raspberry flower can be a source of nectar for honeybees. As a cultivated plant in moist temperate regions, it is easy to grow. It has a tendency to spread unless cut back.

Two types of raspberries can be bought in stores: the wild summer-bearing type, which produces fruit in the summer, and double- or "ever"-bearing plants, which also bear fruit in the summer.

Leaves of the raspberry are used fresh or dried in herbal teas. Leaves are found in groups of 3 or 5, and the undersides are silver-white in color. Blackberries have leaves that look similar to raspberry leaves, but the undersides are green.


</doc>
<doc id="15726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15726" title="Plum">
Plum

A plum is a sweet fruit. Its scientific name is Prunus. (scientific names are uncommon so you should not use prunus in normal English). When dried, it is called a prune. The color "plum" takes its name from the fruit. Plum colored plums are called "purple plums" and are a deep purple color; other plums are reddish purple (these two varieties are shown in the picture at right). Some other plums can be yellow, red, green or even white. The fruit has a groove running down one side, and a smooth stone (seed). The flesh of the fruit is brownish and is very juicy. The skin can be eaten. It can also be used to make jam and the juice can be used to make wine. It is closely related to the apricot. 




</doc>
<doc id="15727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15727" title="Peach">
Peach

The Peach is a species of the "Prunus persica", and is a fruit tree of the rose family "Rosaceae". They grow in the warm regions of both the Northern and Southern hemispheres.

Peaches are grown all over the world these days but they are becoming very expensive. In Peru, peaches are called "panigwats", which means sweet fruit.

The Peach blossoms are from small to medium-sized. The tree is sometimes up to 6.5 m (21 feet) in height. When it is grown by people, though, the height it is usually kept between 3 and 4 m (10 and 13 feet) by pruning. Its leaves are green and pointy. They usually have glands that make a liquid to attract insects.

Peaches are also called stone fruits because they have a shell of hard wood around their seed, called a stone or a pit. The skin of a peach is an orange or yellow color, and it is covered in small hairs called a "peach fuzz". A peach without the fuzz is usually called a nectarine. The inside of a peach is a golden color. It tastes sweet and sticky. Because of this, peaches are often part of dessert. 

Peach first came from China. It has been grown from at least since 1000 B.C.E. In Chinese culture, the peach tree is considered to be the tree of life and peaches are symbols of immortality. Peach blossoms are carried by Chinese brides.

Because of the cold winter, diseases, and pests, peach trees can usually only live about 10 to 12 years. However, if a peach tree is fertilized properly, and taken care of in the right way, it may live more years.

"Brown rot" is a very dangerous kind of peach disease. It can attack the blossoms and stop the fruit from developing. If it is not stopped quickly, good quality fruit can not be produced from the peach tree.

"Peach leaf curl", which is another very serious disease, makes the leaves curl up and begin to die in Spring. It can be stopped if it meets fungicide.

"Bacterial spot" gives harm to the leaves, twigs and fruit. By the time the disease is recognized, it is often too late to stop it. However, some kind of sprays may be used early in the next season to protect the peach tree.

"Cankers" is a kind of disease that infects the twigs and branches. They make large amounts of amber-colored gum spill out from the infected branch. Later, the bark will crack open completely and the tissue of the twig turns black. Cankers can be removed by pruning.

There are several kinds of insect pests that can be great trouble to the peach. The Oriental Fruit Moth can make the peaches filled with worms and young growing tips may die. The Plum Curculio lays its eggs on the fruit, and makes them drop off or become filled with worms. Insects like the Tarnished Plant Bug and the Stink Bug eat up the fruit that is still developing. Borers attack the base of the trunk and the branches.


</doc>
<doc id="15729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15729" title="Fig">
Fig

Fig (genus "Ficus") is a soft, sweet fruit. Its skin is very thin and has many small seeds inside of it. There are more than 850 species of "Ficus", the fig tree. 

The fruits can be eaten when ripe and when dried. Figs grow in warm climates. Sometimes, figs are made into jam. Figs are also in a popular snack.

Figs are pollinated by fig wasps.

The fig fruit is called a "synconium". Many figs are grown for their fruit, though only "Ficus carica", the Common Fig, is cultivated to any extent for human consumption. 

The fig is a false fruit or multiple fruit, in which the flowers and seeds grow together to form a single mass. Depending on the species, each fruit can contain up to several hundred to several thousand seeds.

A fig "fruit" is derived from a specially adapted type of inflorescence (an arrangement of multiple flowers). In this case, it is a turned inwards, nearly closed receptacle, with many small flowers arranged on the "inner" surface. 

Thus the actual flowers of the fig are unseen unless the fig is cut open. It is a fruit without a visible flower. 

The fig fruits, important as both food and traditional medicine, contain laxative substances, flavonoids, sugars, vitamins A and C, acids and enzymes. However, figs are skin allergens, and the sap is a serious eye irritant. 

Some parthenocarpic ('virgin fruit') cultivars of Common Figs do not require pollination at all, and will produce a crop of seedless edible figs without caprifigs or fig wasps.

The syconium often has a bulbous shape with a small opening (the ostiole) at the outward end used by pollinators. The flowers are pollinated by very small wasps which crawl through the opening in search of a suitable place to lay eggs. 

Without this, fig trees cannot reproduce by seed. In turn, the flowers provide a safe haven and nourishment for the next generation of wasps. This has led to a co-evolutionary relationship. 

Fig plants can be monoecious (hermaphrodite) or gynodioecious (hermaphrodite and female). Nearly half of fig species are gynodioecious, and have plants with inflorescences (syconium) with long styled pistillate flowers, or have plants with staminate flowers mixed with short styled pistillate flowers. The long flower styles tend to prevent wasps from laying their eggs within the ovules, while the short styled flowers are accessible for egg laying.

The Common Fig ("Ficus carica") is a gynodioecious plant, which means its fruits are either hermaphrodite and "inedible figs" or caprifigs. In traditional culture in the Mediterranean region they were considered food for goats ("Capra aegagrus"): 'caprifig' means 'goat fig'. In the female fig trees, the male flower parts fail to develop; they produce the "edible figs".

Fig wasps grow in caprifigs but not in the female syconiums. The female flower is too long for the wasp to successfully lay her eggs in them. Nonetheless, the wasp pollinates the flower with pollen from the caprifig it grew up in. When the wasp dies, it is broken down by enzymes inside the fig. This means you do not eat the wasp because it has been dissolved. The wasp does not transmit any diseases harmful to humans.

There is typically "only one species of wasp capable of fertilizing the flowers of each species of fig". For example, in Hawaii, some 60 species of figs have been introduced, but only four of the wasps that fertilize them have been introduced, so only four species of figs produce viable seeds there. This is an example of mutualism, in which each organism (fig plant and fig wasp) benefit each other, in this case reproductively.

The intimate association between fig species and their wasp pollinators, and the one-to-one plant-pollinator ratio are a clear example of co-evolution. Recent genetic and molecular dating analyses have shown a close correspondence in the evolution and speciation of these two clades, figs and wasps.



</doc>
<doc id="15730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15730" title="Grapefruit">
Grapefruit

Grapefruit is a citrus fruit grown in sub-tropical places. It is bigger than an orange and is often more sour, but many types of grapefruit have other flavors.

The tree which the grapefruit grow on, normally are 5-6 meters tall but can reach up to 15 meters tall. It has dark green leaves that measure up to 150mm and has white flowers that grow 5cm in length. The fruit itself can grow 10-15cm in diameter. In 2007, there were about 5,061,023 tons of grapefruits made worldwide, most of the tons coming from the U.S. There are many different kinds of grapefruits with different color pulp. The most popular colors are red, white and pink. There are also a wide range of flavors grapefruits have. From highly acidic and bitter to sweet.


</doc>
<doc id="15731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15731" title="Grape">
Grape

Grapes are the fruit of a woody grape vine. Grapes can be eaten raw, or used for making wine, juice, and jelly/jam. Grapes in different colours; red, purple, white, and green are some examples. Today, grapes can be seedless, by using machines to pit the fruit. Wild grapevines are often considered a nuisance weed, as they cover other plants with their usually rather aggressive growth.

Raisins are the dried fruit of the grapevine, and the name actually comes from the French word for "grape." 

Since the early 21st century in the United States and other countries, and the global functional food industry, there has been a fast-growing recognition of red grapes for their popularity, nutrient content and antioxidant qualities. This has given them commercial status as a "superfruit".

The leaves of the grapevine itself are considered edible (eatable). They are used to make dolmades.

Grapevines are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species.

According to the "Food and Agriculture Organization" (FAO), 75,866 square kilometres of the world is used to grow grapes. About 71% of grapes are used for wine. 27% are used as fresh fruit, and 2% are used as dried fruit. A part of grape production goes to making grape juice to be used as a sweetener for fruits canned "with no added sugar" and "100% natural". The area dedicated to vineyards is increasing by about 2% per year. 

The following list of top wine-producers shows the areas used to grow grapes for wine making, although of course country size is a limiting factor, as well as the economic demand for their product. 

Comparing diets among western countries, researchers have found that although the French usually eat more animal fat than other countries, the number of cases of heart disease remains low in France. Many scientists think this is because the French drink more red wine than other countries. Something in the grape helps lower the amount of cholesterol in the body. This helps prevent clogging of the arteries. Doctors do not recommend drinking a lot of red wine, but three or four glasses a week is good and encouraged.

Grapes of all colors offer benefits. Red wine offers health benefits that are not found in white wine. This is because many of the good nutrients are found in the skins of the grapes, and only red wine is fermented with the skins.

White grapes are derived from the red grape by evolution. Changes in two genes turn off creation of anthocyanin. Anthocyanin is what makes red grapes the color red..

A "raisin" is any dried grape. A "currant" is a dried Zante grape. The name is a corruption of the French "raisin de Corinthe" (Corinth grape). A "sultana" was originally a raisin made from a specific type of grape of Turkish origin. The word is now used for raisins made from common North American grapes and chemically treated to resemble the traditional sultana.

Note that, while "raisin" is a French loanword, the word in French means the fresh fruit. "Grappe" (Where the English word "grape" comes from) means the bunch (as in "une grappe de raisin").

Note also that "currant" has also come to mean to the blackcurrant and redcurrant. These two berries completely unrelated to grapes.



</doc>
<doc id="15732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15732" title="Blackberry">
Blackberry

"For the cell phone, see BlackBerry."
The blackberry is an edible fruit made by any of several species in the Rubus genus of the Rosaceae family. Blackberries and raspberries are also called "caneberries" or "brambles." It is a widespread, and well known group of over 375 species, which are closely related apomictic microspecies native all over the temperate Northern hemisphere and South America. The blackberry grows to about 3 m in height. It makes an edible black fruit, known by the same name. The plant tolerates poor soil very well. It is very pervasive. It will grow fast, taking over uncultivated spots very fast. The black, juicy plump ones taste sweeter than the pre-mature blackberries (the red ones). 


</doc>
<doc id="15733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15733" title="Lychee">
Lychee

A lychee (pronounced LEE-ji) is a tropical fruit in the genus Litchi. It comes from southern China. Since it is tropical, it will only grow in a warm, wet climate.

The inside of a lychee is a clear, pinkish-white colour. The outside of the fruit is a hard spiky shell. Its seed is brown in colour and very hard. The seeds are poisonous and should not be eaten. The fruit is rare because dragonfruit climbs the bough on lychee plants, causing them to die. 


</doc>
<doc id="15734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15734" title="Cherry">
Cherry

Cherry is a fruit that grows on a tree or a bush. It belongs to the genus "Prunus". It is usually red, with a seed in the middle. It tastes slightly sour, and is often used to flavour cakes and ice cream, or is baked in a pie or cobbler. Cherries are also a good source of Vitamin B.


</doc>
<doc id="15736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15736" title="Blackcurrant">
Blackcurrant

Blackcurrant ("Ribes nigrum") is a small, bitter-tasting fruit. It can be found in central and northern Europe and northern Asia.

Blackcurrant has a lot of vitamin C in it. Blackcurrant gets its name from its dark color. It is also used to make jelly, ice cream, and cordial. Blackcurrant is a popular flavor in the United Kingdom. Blackcurrants are also used in salads and in baking, similar to raisins.


</doc>
<doc id="15739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15739" title="Date">
Date

The word date can mean :


</doc>
<doc id="15740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15740" title="Date Palm">
Date Palm

The Date Palm is a palm. It has been cultivated for a very long time because of its edible fruit. This fruit is called "date". The tree is between 15m and 25m high. It has long leaves that look like feathers. Such leaves are called pinnate. The leaves can grow to 3-5 metres in length. The leaves have visible spines. There are about 150 leaflets. Each leaflet can be up to 30 cm in length and 2cm in breadth. The full span of the crown of the tree is 6 to 10 metres.

The tree has one or more trunks, that all come from a single system of roots. 

World production of dates was approximately 6.7 Mio tonnes in 2004 (FAO statistics). The major producers are:

The First International Date Conference was held in Tripoli, Libya in 1959. In that conference, it was decided to develop a special program under the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to promote the commercial use of substandard or physically defective dates.


</doc>
<doc id="15741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15741" title="Cherimoya">
Cherimoya

Cherimoya is a sweet fruit that comes mostly from Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Bolivia. The inside of a cherimoya is soft, and it is white in color. The skin of the cherimoya fruit is green when it is ripe, and brown if it becomes too ripe. The cherimoya has large, black seeds. They are poisonous, and should not be eaten, like the skin. The cherimoya is special because it can be grown in high places.


</doc>
<doc id="15742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15742" title="Blueberry">
Blueberry

A blueberry is a berry, a very small fruit. It grows in a type of tree called a shrub. Many types of blueberries grow in North America and eastern Asia. Blueberries are more common between May and October.

Blueberries have a sweet taste, with a little acidic hint. Wild blueberries have a stronger taste. Blueberries are good for making jelly, jam, pie, muffins, and many other foods. 


</doc>
<doc id="15743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15743" title="Momentum">
Momentum

Simply speaking, momentum of an object (p) is defined as the product of the mass (m) and velocity (v) of the object. It is a vector quantity, which has both direction and magnitude. Its unit is "kg m/s" (kilogram metre per second) or "N s" (newton second). Momentum is sometimes referred to as linear momentum which is different from its related subject angular momentum.

Momentum is a conserved object, meaning that the total initial momentum of a system must be equal to the total final momentum of a system. Total amount of momentum remains unchanged.

Momentum can be considered the "power" when an object is moving, meaning how much force it can have on another object. For example, a bowling ball (large mass) pushed very slowly (low velocity) can hit a glass door and not break it, while a baseball (small mass) can be thrown fast (high velocity) and break the same window. The baseball has a larger momentum than the bowling ball. Because momentum is the product of the mass and the velocity of an object, that both mass and velocity affect the momentum of an object. As shown, an object with a large mass and low velocity can have the same momentum as an object with a small mass and large velocity.

In Newtonian physics, the usual symbol for momentum is a p ; so this can be written
where p is the momentum, "m" is the mass and v is the velocity.
</br>
If we apply Newton's 2nd Law, we can derive
The meaning is that the net force on an object is equal to the rate of change in momentum of the object.

This equation also applies in special relativity, but with m being the relativistic mass of the object.

Impulse is the change in momentum cause by a net force:

In understanding conservation of momentum, the direction of the momentum is important. Momentum in a system is added up using vector addition. Under the rules of vector addition, adding a certain amount of momentum together with the same amount of momentum going in the opposite direction gives a total momentum of zero.

For instance, when a gun is fired, a small mass (the bullet) moves at a high speed in one direction. A larger mass (the gun) moves in the opposite direction at a much slower speed. The momentum of the bullet and the momentum of the gun are exactly equal in size but opposite in direction. Using vector addition to add the momentum of the bullet to the momentum of the gun (equal in size but opposite in direction) gives a total system momentum of zero. The momentum of the gun-bullet system has been conserved.


</doc>
<doc id="15747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15747" title="Category:1648">
Category:1648


</doc>
<doc id="15751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15751" title="Malmo">
Malmo

Malmo (Swedish: Malmö, Danish: Malmø) is the third largest city in Sweden. About 265,000 people live there. It is in the south west part of the Sweden, by the sea. The Öresund bridge goes from Malmö to Copenhagen. In the 15th century, Malmö was one of Denmark's largest cities.

Malmö has the biggest Middle Eastern community in Sweden. It is warm in the summer. In winter it is not quite as cold as in other parts of the country.

 Newcastle upon Tyne (UK)


</doc>
<doc id="15752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15752" title="Skull">
Skull

A skull, or cranium, is a set of bones that make up the head of a vertebrate and keep in place all body parts in the head. Its hard bones keeps the brain safe. Inside the skull are air pockets called sinuses, which act like cushions for the brain. When you have a headache in your forehead, it is usually because the sinuses are filled with fluid due to allergies.

In humans, the adult skull is normally made up of 28 bones. A skull is also used as a symbol of poison or death when used with crossbones.


</doc>
<doc id="15762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15762" title="Mark Hoppus">
Mark Hoppus

Mark Hoppus is an American musician better known by his pseudonym, "Heezy".

He was born March 15, 1972. He is most famous for being a member of the band Blink 182. He played the bass guitar and sang. After Blink 182 broke up, he started another band, called "+44", with Blink 182's drummer, Travis Barker. When he was younger he played in bands called Pier 69 and the Attic Children. He has a wife named Skye and a son named Jack. Today he plays in +44 and produces music for other bands.


</doc>
<doc id="15769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15769" title="Sandstone">
Sandstone

Sandstone is a sedimentary rock. It is a rock made of compacted sand, which is mostly quartz and/or 
feldspar, the most common minerals in the Earth's crust.

Sand particles are cemented ('glued' together) with either calcite (calcium carbonate), quartz (silica), or clay. Iron oxide often makes it a reddish colour. 

Sandstone which is resistant to weathering is used for building in many countries. It can be a very hard rock. For example, paving slabs can be made out of hard sandstone. 


</doc>
<doc id="15770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15770" title="Template:User tr">
Template:User tr


</doc>
<doc id="15772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15772" title="Pseudonym">
Pseudonym

A pseudonym (seu-do-nim) is a fake name a person uses instead of their real name. Many people use pseudonyms, including authors (pen names) and performers (stage names). People use pseudonyms for several different reasons: to hide identity, gender, and/or race. People (such as rappers) also use pseudonyms to match their stage personality better.

There are three main types of pseudonyms: pen names, stage names and user-names. Pen names are used by authors, usually to hide identity. Many famous books, such as The Outsiders and A Series of Unfortunate Events, have been written by authors using a pseudonym. Daniel Handler wrote A Series of Unfortunate Events under the pseudonym Lemony Snicket both because he wanted to make the author a character in the story and because he wanted to hide his real name. When she published The Outsiders, Susan Eloise Hinton decided to use her initials, S. E., instead of her first and middle names, because she did not want readers to guess her gender. The Brontë sisters (Anne, Emily and Charlotte) used pseudonyms to hide the fact that they based many of their characters on their neighbors.

Musicians, actors and performers also use pseudonyms, called stage names, both to hide their identity and to give themselves a "cooler" name. For example, rapper Sean Combs is currently known by Diddy, but used to call himself P Diddy and Puff Daddy. He says that he changed his name from P Diddy to Diddy because the name "caused confusion and he wanted to 'simplify things'." 

Many people on the Internet use pseudonyms. There are many names for these pseudonyms, including user-names, user IDs and handles. These pseudonyms help people stay anonymous on the internet, and they also protect people from identity theft and phishing. When people log into an account on sites like Wikipedia, MySpace or Facebook, their user-name helps identify them without entering their real name. If people used their real name instead of a user-name, it would create confusion for two people with the same name. Usernames make this simple, because people create their own user-names. Also, if someone used their real name, it would make it easier for people to guess their passwords and for other people to find them in real life.



</doc>
<doc id="15773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15773" title="Pen name">
Pen name

A pen name, also known as a pseudonym, is a name an author uses in the place of their real name, when they write and publish things. For example, the Brontë sisters (Anne, Emily and Charlotte) who were famous authors in the 19th century used them, because they feared that people would make fun of (say bad things about) a book written by a woman. Charles Dodgson, a math professor took the name Lewis Carroll, when he wrote fantasy stories.


</doc>
<doc id="15775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15775" title="Stage name">
Stage name

A stage name is a name an entertainer like a movie star or a musician takes in the place of their real or birth name, they might like this name better than their real one or it's easier for people to remember. Professional wrestlers use stage names also, in their case it's called a "Ring name".
Actors and actresses choose stage names for a variety of reasons. Their real names may be the same as or similar to those of other people, or they may be difficult to say or spell.

Pen name


</doc>
<doc id="15778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15778" title="Fermat's last theorem">
Fermat's last theorem

Fermat's Last Theorem is a very famous idea in mathematics. It says that:

Pierre de Fermat wrote about it in 1637 inside his copy of a book called "Arithmetica". He said "I have a proof of this theorem, but there is not enough space in this edge." (In Latin, it was: "Cuius rei demonstrationem mirabilem sane detexi. Hanc marginis exiguitas non caperet.") However, no correct proof was found for 357 years. It is widely speculated amongst mathematicians everywhere that Fermat, in fact, did not have a good proof of this exciting and revolutionary theorem.

Fermat's Last Theorem is a more general form of the equation: formula_2.

The proof was made for "some" values of n (like "n"=3, "n"=4, "n"=5 and "n"=7). Fermat, Euler, Sophie Germain, and other people did this. 

However, the full proof must show that the equation has no solution for all values of n (when n is a whole number bigger than 2). The proof was very difficult to find, and Fermat's Last Theorem needed lots of time to be solved.

An English mathematician named Andrew Wiles found a solution in 1995. Richard Taylor helped him find the solution. Wiles did a lot of secret work. He wanted to be the first.

After a few years of debate, people agreed that Andrew Wiles had solved the problem. Andrew Wiles used a lot of modern mathematics and even created new math when he made his solution. This mathematics was unknown when Fermat wrote his famous note, so Fermat could not have used it. This leads one to believe that Fermat did not in fact have a complete solution of the problem.



</doc>
<doc id="15779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15779" title="Lewinsky scandal">
Lewinsky scandal

The Monica Lewinsky scandal (also called Monicagate) was a famous scandal where United States President Bill Clinton was said to have had oral sex with 22 year old Monica Lewinsky. Though he did not admit to the affair until the annual White House prayer on September 11, 1998, in the presence of several ministers, priests and his wife, Hillary Clinton, in his infamous "I have sinned" speech. The speech was hand-written by Clinton himself and was delivered on the day of publication of the first report by Independent Counsel Ken Starr, which threatened to impeach President Clinton in the grounds of perjury and his sexual affair with former White House intern, Monica Lewinsky. 


</doc>
<doc id="15780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15780" title="Console">
Console

Console can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="15782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15782" title="323">
323

Centuries: 3rd century - 4th century - 5th century

Decades: 270s 280s 290s 300s 310s - 320s - 330s 340s 350s 360s 370s

Years: 318 319 320 321 322 - 323 - 324 325 326 327 328



</doc>
<doc id="15783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15783" title="Guam">
Guam

Guam is an island in Micronesia in the Pacific Ocean that is part of the United States. It is a territory and not one of the 50 U.S. States. The people that first lived there are called "Chamorros". The capital of Guam is the city of Hagåtña. The largest city is Dededo. Guam has important United States Air Force and Navy bases, which use a lot of Guam's land. Guam also has a lot of tourists.

Guam was one of the first islands in the Pacific Ocean to be visited by Europeans. In 1521, the first European to visit Guam was Ferdinand Magellan, on his voyage around the World. Spain took over Guam in 1668, and it was an important place for Spanish delivery boats every year going between Mexico and the Philippines, known as the Manila Galleon. During this time the people on Guam learned a great deal about the Spaniards.

In 1898, the United States had a war with Spain and took Guam under the Treaty of Paris, which also brought the giving of Cuba, the Philippines and Puerto Rico from Spain. Guam continued to be important due to its strategic location, both for shipping and air travel in the Pacific. During World War II, Japan captured Guam in 1941, but the U.S. fought to get it back in 1944. This meant that the Chamorro people on Guam were on a different side of the war than the Chamorro people on the nearby Northern Mariana Islands. Even though the Northern Mariana Islands were also taken over by America, they still feel different from the Chamorro people on Guam.

In 1950, the US Congress passed a law making the people of Guam American citizens.

Most people on Guam are happy to be Americans. The American military bases make some jobs for a lot of Guam people. Being part of America also helps bring visitors from Japan who spend money.

But some people on Guam do not like Guam continuing its status as a U.S. territory. They want to be a more important part of America. Some of these people want Guam to be a "commonwealth", like Puerto Rico. A few others want Guam to be a U.S. State, or for Guam to be its own country. But the United States does not think this would be a good idea. Guam needs a lot of money from the U.S. government, which it would lose if it changed into a commonwealth, a state, or its own country. Also, changing Guam might mean the U.S. would have to give up some of the important military bases.

Guam gets most of its money from the United States government. Much of that money is spent on the military bases, but there are also federal grants given to the Guam government for various programs. Because it is only a territory, federal income taxes paid by Guam residents are given to the Guam government for its operations. 

Guam also gets a lot of money from visitors on vacation. Almost all of these visitors are from Japan. Japanese tourists like Guam because it is closer to Japan than other American places. Guam has lots of hotels and other fun places for people to visit. Tumon Bay is Guam's biggest beach. It has lots of pretty white sand, and the water has lots of fish. Tumon is becoming a busy city.

Today, Guam has less visitors than it did a few years ago, because Asia has had some trouble. This means there are fewer jobs on Guam, and it has lost money.

Guam is 212 square miles (549 square kilometers) large. In the north part, it has a flat area of coral and limestone rock. The south part has mountains. Around the island is a coral reef.

Guam is next to the Marianas Trench, which is the deepest part of the Earth and underwater. It sometimes has earthquakes, some of which have been very strong.

Guam is a tropical island. It is usually quite warm and wet and the temperature does not change very much. From February to July it is dry, but the rest of the year it is rainy. Sometimes Guam has very strong and dangerous storms in October and November.


</doc>
<doc id="15786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15786" title="Warren G. Harding">
Warren G. Harding

Warren G. Harding (November 2, 1865–August 2, 1923) was the 29th President of the United States (Republican Party). Before becoming president, he was a senator and the assistant governor of Ohio. Before he was in government, he was an important newspaper manager. He was the president from 1921 to 1923.

After World War I, he was elected on the promise to return the United States back to normal. He supported limited government in the economy. During his term, he lowered taxes and believed that the economy should not be regulated too much.

Warren G. Harding made the mistake of appointing his friends to high political positions. In result, they corruptly abused their power for their personal gain and several scandals happened during his presidency (Harding himself was innocent). 

He died of a heart attack in 1923 while he was the president. His vice president Calvin Coolidge became president after he died. 

Historians generally consider him one of the worst presidents due to his lack of political skill.


</doc>
<doc id="15789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15789" title="Honduras">
Honduras

Honduras is a country in Central America. Its capital is Tegucigalpa. Most people of Honduras speak the Spanish language. 7,483,763 people live in Honduras and it is 112,492 km² in size. It is located right next to El Salvador. To one side is the Caribbean Sea and to the other in the Pacific Ocean.


</doc>
<doc id="15790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15790" title="Bangladesh">
Bangladesh

Bangladesh is a country in South Asia, located next to the North-east Indian provincial regions of India, which converges with Southeast Asia to the east. Its full name is The People's Republic of Bangla-Desh. The capital and the largest city is Dhaka (also spelled 'Dacca'). Bangladesh is surrounded on all three sides by the Republic of India (Bharat), and is in close proximity to the People's Republic of China, Bhutan, Sikkim and Nepal. Its independence was fully realised after it declared it self as independent most of 1971 from Pakistan after a bloody war in which over a million people died. Later by Indian military intervention, by that time the provisional government went into exile in Calcutta, Bengal (India) which they considered their homeland to be under Pakistani military occupation. After the Instrument of Surrender, the Bengali peoples became a sovereign nation and when its founder was released from political imprisonment had returned in 1972. Present-day Bangladesh has an area of 55,126 mi² or (142,776 km²). It is bigger than Tajikistan but smaller than Nepal. 

The local currency is called Taka. The official language is Bengali.

There are two main rivers in Bangladesh, the Ganges and Brahmaputra Rivers are holy to Hindus. There are often floods because of these two rivers. 

Islam took in shape foothold in the 13th century. Bangladesh used to be called East Bengal, after they had fought hard for a Muslim homeland in 1947 and was made a part of United Pakistan, However by 1955 its citizens were commonly referred to as East Pakistanis. Dacca was then the legislative capital of Pakistani Bengal provincial region. The peoples of East Pakistan were mostly ethnic Bengalis who had a different language and culture to the people of western Pakistani. These differences eventually led to Liberation war. On 16 December 1971, Bangladesh gained independence, with the help of allied forces against West Pakistani forces. 

After the birth of Bangladesh, Bangla replaced Urdu and English as the sole national and official language, and was the language taught in schools and used in business and government. The Bangla Academy was important in this change. In the 1980s, British-style education was maintained through private English-language institutions attended by upper class children. English continued to be taught in higher education and was offered as a subject for university degrees. 

At first, Arabic also lost ground in independent Bangladesh. This trend ended in the late 1970s, however, after Bangladesh strengthened its ties with Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich, Arabic-speaking countries. An unsuccessful attempt was made in 1983 to introduce Arabic as a required language in primary and secondary levels. Arabic is widely studied in Madrassas and Islamic institutions around the country for better understanding of the Quran, Hadith and any other Islamic texts.

Despite 30 years of independence, Bangladesh is still a poor country and has problems with corruption and political troubles as the other country have. Presently more than half of the people can read and write.

Bangladesh has heavy cyclones and natural disasters, which because of carbon release at a higher ratio by Rich Country and warming the world. Due to this many lives are often lost. The country is one of the most densely populated in the world. Cyclones are very common in the Bay of Bengal during the middle of the year, particularly in the south of country in areas like Sundarban, Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar or in neighboring Myanmar and Republic of India. Despite the many storms, Bangladesh does not have a very effective storm prevention system, and cyclones usually inflict heavy damage. Therefore the rich country should come forward and help Bangladesh to have a effective storm prevention system being they are liable for all these Cyclones.


</doc>
<doc id="15791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15791" title="Template:Empty">
Template:Empty

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="15797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15797" title="Yugoslavia">
Yugoslavia

Yugoslavia was a country in Europe, mostly in Balkan Peninsula, its meaning South Slavs deriving from Slavs who came from area what is now Poland. It existed in three forms during 1918-2003. 
From 1918 until 1928 it was called the "Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes". From 1928 until World War II it was the "Kingdom of Yugoslavia". After the WW 2 it was renamed to the "Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" with six republics, 2 autonomous provinces: Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia and two autonomous provinces in Serbia: Vojvodina in the north, and Kosovo, next to Albania. North Kosovo always had majority Serbian, Christian population. It remains to this day under full Serbian/Belgrade defacto control. In 1991, came the independence of Slovenia, Croatia, in 1992, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, causing the end of the country. Serbia and Montenegro, were the last two republics in the Socialist Yugoslavia. In 1992, they formed a new "Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" (FRY). On 3 February 2003, the FRY became the "State Union of Serbia and Montenegro". In mid 2006, the state union ended when Montenegro decided to be independent, 55% of voters voted yes.
Now, Yugoslavia has been split up and made into these countries:


</doc>
<doc id="15798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15798" title="Major League Baseball">
Major League Baseball

Major League Baseball is the company in the United States and Canada that is in charge of professional baseball. Both the American League, also called AL, and National League, also called NL, are part of the company. Even though it is named "major league" (high group), the company is also in charge of much of the minor league (low group) of baseball. The company owns everything that happens in major league baseball games. It also includes MLB Productions and MLB Advanced Media, which are in charge of major league baseball games on television and the teams and company web pages. There are 30 different major league teams.

The 30 teams in MLB are divided into two leagues (American and National), and each league is divided into three divisions (East, Central, West). The AL West has four teams, and the NL Central has six. The other divisions all have five teams.

Each team in Major League Baseball is scheduled to play a 162 game season. This season begins in April (or sometimes the end of March) and ends in October. The teams play other teams in their own division the most, and play very few (no more than six) games against teams in the other league. Teams usually play each other in series of three or four games at a time. If a game is cancelled because of bad weather, it may be held again at a different date, sometimes as part of a doubleheader (two games in one day). Sometimes these games are not held again if it would not affect either team's place in the standings (the list of teams ordered by their number of wins and losses). If teams are tied at the end of a season, they may play an extra game to decide which one will play in the playoffs. In July, there are three days where teams do not play normal games, and a group of players voted on by fans play in the "All-Star Game". This period is called the "All-Star Break", and it is thought of as the point where half of the season is over. Lately, some games at the beginning of the regular season have been played in other countries, such as Japan.

There is one difference between games played in the American League and games played in the National League. The American League teams play with a "designated hitter", a player who bats in place of the pitcher and does not play in the field. In the National League, the pitcher must bat along with the other players. In games played in teams from both leagues, the rule that the home team usually plays by is used.

At the end of every season, eight teams play in the playoffs. Four teams from the AL, and four teams from the NL are in the playoffs. The team from the West, Central, or East division from each league with the most wins makes the playoffs (a team with the best record in its division is said to have "won its division". The next best team in the AL and the next best team in the NL also get to play in the playoffs. They are called "wild card" teams. The first playoff round is called the Division Series. In the Division Series, teams play "best out of 5". The team with the best record in the AL plays the Wild Card team, unless the teams are in the same division, where the team with the best record will play the division winner with the third best record. The division winner with the second best record plays against the division winner with the third best record. The NL teams play the same way. The teams that lose are out of the playoffs. The Al teams that win play in the AL Championship Series. The NL teams that win play in the NL Championship Series. The Championship series is "best out of 7 games". When there is only one AL team and one NL team left, the teams play each other in the World Series. These teams play the final "best out of 7" games in the World Series to decide who that season's champion is.

The company called Major League Baseball began in 2000. Before then, the American League and National League were separate companies that people called "the major leagues". MLB says that its history began in 1869, when the first team to get paid for playing baseball, the Cincinnati Red Stockings, was created.

The first league of professional baseball teams began in 1871 and was called the National Association. This league did not play baseball the same way MLB does. For example, batters would walk after nine pitches instead of four. Many of the teams had problems with money and split up after only one or two seasons. However two teams are still playing today. Those teams were the Boston Red Stockings, which today is the Atlanta Braves, and the Chicago White Stockings, which today is the Chicago Cubs. In 1876, a league that was run better, the National League, began, and included the Red and White Stockings as well as six other teams. Even though this league was run better, many teams still would split up after only a few seasons, though some, like the teams that are now called the Philadelphia Phillies and San Francisco Giants, are also still playing today. There were other leagues also. The American Association started in 1882 and was almost as good as the National League. However many of its teams would go to the National League, and the American Association disappeared in 1891. The National League had problems, though. Players and fans did not behave well, and once a fire that destroyed part of Boston happened at a game.



</doc>
<doc id="15799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15799" title="Lou Gehrig">
Lou Gehrig

Henry Louis Gehrig (born Ludwig Heinrich Gehrig; June 19, 1903 — June 2, 1941) was an American baseball player. He played with Babe Ruth and the New York Yankees who were thought the best team of that time. He played with the Yankees for most of his playing time which started in 1923 and ended in 1939. He played in 2,130 games without a rest, which was the most of any player until Cal Ripken, Jr. in 1995. When he stopped playing as well, he went to a doctor who found out Gehrig had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS — which is now sometimes called Lou Gehrig's disease). The doctor told Gehrig he had only a short time to live. On July 4, 1939, there was a special observation of Gehrig by the other Yankees, and Gehrig gave a public talk that became well-known. When he spoke that day he said he was "the luckiest man on the face of the earth". The mayor of New York City congratulated him for his teamwork. He died less than two years later.


</doc>
<doc id="15800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15800" title="United States Senate">
United States Senate

The United States Senate is part of the United States Congress, which is a group of elected people who decide the laws of the country.

Every U.S. state chooses two people from the state to work in the Senate. These people are called senators. Since there are 50 U.S. states, there are 100 senators. Senators serve six years at a time, and one-third of them are picked every two years. Originally the legislature of each state decided who their senators would be. After 1913, all the people of the state chose their senators by vote. The Vice President of the United States is in charge of the Senate, but only does anything when there is a tie vote or a special event.

The Senate, along with the United States House of Representatives, votes on which laws the United States should have. In most cases, both of these groups have to agree on the suggested law before it becomes a law.

The Senate is the side of Congress where every state has the same number of votes (two). This is different from the House of Representatives, where states with more people have more votes than states with fewer people. This was decided during the time the United States Constitution was written, because small states like Rhode Island and Delaware did not want the larger states to be able to decide everything. Also, only part of the Senate runs for election during elections. Every two years, 33 or 34 senators are elected. For each state, this means that after two elections to the Senate, during one election no one will be elected to the Senate.

The Senate is also in charge of agreeing to treaties with other countries. The President has to ask the Senate to agree with his choices of candidates for certain jobs in his office or in the government. If the Senate and President do not agree, the President has to pick someone else the Senate will agree to.

In order to be a senator, a person has to be 30 years old or older, and has to be a citizen of the United States for 9 years or more. He or she must also be an inhabitant of the state they represent at election time.

Right now, the Senate is made up of 41 Republicans, 57 Democrats, 1 Independent and 1 Independent Democrat.


</doc>
<doc id="15803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15803" title="Fair use">
Fair use

Fair use is the idea that it should be okay for a person to copy small parts of something another person has created, without breaking the law.

In most countries, art and other made-up things, like stories, books, TV shows, and pictures, are owned by the person that first made them. This person can let someone else own the things they make, sometimes for money. The person that owns these things has a "copyright" for them, which means that person can decide who can copy their work. If someone else copies that work without asking the owner first, that person is breaking the law. The owner can take the person to court and try to get money from them because of what they did.

Since a lot of creative work is popular, people want to talk about them, and they may want to talk about them on TV or in a book. This might mean that they want to use a little bit of it when they talk about it. The idea of "fair use" was added to most copyright laws to make sure that it would be OK do to this, as long as only a little bit of someone's work is used.

Since a lot of creative work is now on computers and on the Internet, it is very easy to copy things and send them to lots of people. To make sure that people cannot always do this, there are computer programs that try to stop people from copying other people's work. One problem with these programs is that they also mean that you cannot copy even a small part of someone's work, so you cannot do "fair use" without cheating the program. In some countries, cheating those software programs is also breaking the law.


</doc>
<doc id="15806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15806" title="Category:Zambia">
Category:Zambia

"Main article": Zambia


</doc>
<doc id="15807" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15807" title="Category:Baseball">
Category:Baseball


</doc>
<doc id="15808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15808" title="Category:Baseball players">
Category:Baseball players

This is a category for baseball players.


</doc>
<doc id="15842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15842" title="Category:Irish people">
Category:Irish people

In this category are people from the European country Ireland.


</doc>
<doc id="15843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15843" title="Category:Ireland">
Category:Ireland


</doc>
<doc id="15844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15844" title="Category:New Zealand people">
Category:New Zealand people

In this category are people from the country of New Zealand.


</doc>
<doc id="15845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15845" title="Category:1137 deaths">
Category:1137 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15846" title="Category:1137">
Category:1137


</doc>
<doc id="15847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15847" title="Category:1067 births">
Category:1067 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1067.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="15848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15848" title="Category:1067">
Category:1067


</doc>
<doc id="15850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15850" title="Category:Prefectures of Japan">
Category:Prefectures of Japan


</doc>
<doc id="15851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15851" title="Category:Reggae musicians">
Category:Reggae musicians


</doc>
<doc id="15853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15853" title="Category:Reggae music">
Category:Reggae music


</doc>
<doc id="15854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15854" title="Category:Soul musicians">
Category:Soul musicians


</doc>
<doc id="15855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15855" title="Category:Soul music">
Category:Soul music


</doc>
<doc id="15856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15856" title="Category:Swedish people">
Category:Swedish people


</doc>
<doc id="15857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15857" title="Category:Sweden">
Category:Sweden


</doc>
<doc id="15858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15858" title="Category:Turkish people">
Category:Turkish people

This category contains notable people from Turkey.


</doc>
<doc id="15860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15860" title="Duodenum">
Duodenum

The duodenum is a short section of the small intestine that receives secretions from the pancreas and liver via the pancreatic and common bile ducts.


</doc>
<doc id="15861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15861" title="Soil erosion">
Soil erosion

Soil erosion is the washing or blowing away (by wind or water) of the top layer of soil (dirt). 

This is a serious problem for people who want to grow crops. Crops are the foods that farmers grow. If the soil has eroded, the crops will not grow very well. 

Soil erosion was a big problem in the Midwestern United States in the 1930s dust bowl.

Erosion also leaves large holes in the earth, which can weaken buildings and even cause them to collapse. 

Soil erosion can be prevented several ways. 





</doc>
<doc id="15862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15862" title="Compost">
Compost

Compost is a type of fertilizer that is made from rotting plants. It is easy and cheap to make, as all it really requires is vegetable waste. The vegetable waste is broken down by bacteria (germs), and made into compost.

To make a compost heap, you need some space fairly far from anyone who might have a problem with the smell. The bottom corner of a garden, or some other place a distance from the house is a good place. Compost heaps should also be placed on soil, or grass: a paved yard or concrete are bad places.
The compost heap should not be in a dark or closed corner.

The best base for a compost heap is a layer of sand, bricks or gravel about 1m long by 1m wide. This is not needed, but it can be a good idea. If using bricks, leave spaces to allow the air to move through. It also allows for the water to run away. The best compost heaps have lots of little spaces inside, to allow air to move around.

Once the first layer is down, one can begin adding the waste. 

Some good types of waste are:







Adding meat scraps is a bad idea, as they rot slowly, smell bad and attract rats and other vermin. Human or pet feces is also a very bad idea, as this can transmit disease.
Waste from plants that have died of disease is also bad. The disease can spread to the plants that the compost is used with.

When making a compost heap, different types of waste should be layered. A layer of cut grass can be followed by a layer of vegetable waste and table scraps.

Watering the compost heap is a good idea, especially in dry areas. The water helps encourage the waste to rot and turn into compost.

In anywhere from 3 to 6 months, the compost will be ready. The compost is ready when it smells like thick earth, with no smell of decay or rot. Of course, if you have been adding waste all this time, the compost will all be at the bottom of the heap, and will have to be dug out.

The stuff that has not rotted can be used as part of a new compost heap.



</doc>
<doc id="15863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15863" title="Haiti">
Haiti

Haiti (French: "Haïti"; Haitian Creole: "Ayiti"), officially the Republic of Haiti (French: "République d'Haïti"; Haitian Creole: "Repiblik d Ayiti") is a country on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola; the other country on the island is the Dominican Republic. There are two official languages: French and Haitian Creole, or ""Kreyol"". The capital city of Haiti is Port-au-Prince.

It has a tropical climate, and is called in French ""La Perle des Antilles"" (The pearl of the Antilles), because of its natural beauty. It is very mountainous, but is no longer covered with forests, as it once was. It is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.

Haiti is divided into ten "departements". There are two official languages, French and Haitian creole, or ""Kreyol"". The main religion is Roman Catholic, however Voodoo, derived from African folk beliefs in Benin, is still widely practised also. There are many holidays; the largest and most important is the "Mardi Gras".

Haiti has a total area of 27,750 km²; most of it is in the western third of the Hispaniola island and the rest are smaller islands that are near the Haitian coast, such as tels que : "Gonâve", "Île de la Tortue", "Les Cayemites", "Île-à-Vache" and "La Navase".

There are many mountains in Haiti, with only some coastal plains and few valleys; the largest valley is the "Cul-de-Sac", where Port-au-Prince is found, in its western end. The main Haitian river is the Artibonite, which is also the longest of the Hispaniola. The biggest city is Port-au-Prince with more than 3 millions of inhabitants in its metropolitan area; the second city is Cap-Haïtien.Haiti has a tropical weather. The rain season is from April to June and from October to November. Tropical cyclones are common during summer and made a lot of damage and many people die.

The native Arawak Amerindians - who lived in the island of Hispaniola when it was discovered by Columbus - were brutally killed by Spanish conquistadors within twenty-five years. 

In the early 17th century, the French established a colony on Hispaniola, and in 1697, Spain sold to the French the western third of the island, Haiti. The French colony , based on forestry and sugar-related industries, became one of the wealthiest in the Caribbean, but only through bringing many African slaves and destroying much of the environment. In the late 18th century, Haiti's nearly half million slaves revolted under Toussaint L'Ouverture, and after a hard and bloody struggle, became the first black republic to declare its independence in 1804., University of Louisiana</ref Today there are many historic monuments remembering this; one of the largest is "La Citadelle Laferriere".

On January 12, 2010, at 21:53 UTC,the island was struck by a magnitude-7.0 earthquake, the country's most severe earthquake in the past 200 years. The epicenter of the quake was just outside the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It has been estimated by numerous media that the death toll could reach 200,000.

Haiti is made of ten regions known as departments (French: "départments", singular "départment"). These departments are further divided into 41 "arrondissements", and 133 "communes", second and third level units of administration.

The 10 departments, with their capital cities in parentheses, are:

Official holidays (on the same day every year)
Traditional and religious holidays (dates vary according to the liturgical calendar of the Catholic Church)

Haiti is currently the least developed country in the Americas. The country is among the world's poorest and least developed. There are certain economic indicators that can be calculated to compare the social and economic situation of different countries. Some of these indicators show that Haiti fell behind other low-income developing countries since the 1980s. In 2006, Haiti ranked 146th of 177 countries in the United Nations Human Development Index (2006). About 80% of the population were estimated to be living in poverty in 2003. Haiti is the only country in the Americas on the United Nations list of Least Developed Countries. Economic growth was negative in 2001 and 2002, and flat in 2003.

About 66% of all Haitians work in the agricultural sector. Most of them do small-scale subsistence farming, but this activity makes up only 30% of the GDP. In the last ten years, very few jobs were created, but 
the informal economy is growing. Mangoes and coffee are two of Haiti's most important exports. Haiti has consistently ranked among the most corrupt countries in the world on the Corruption Perceptions Index.

Foreign aid makes up approximately 30%-40% of the national government's budget. The largest donor is the United States followed by Canada, and the European Union also contributes. Venezuela and Cuba also make various contributions to Haiti's economy, especially after alliances were renewed in 2006 and 2007.

U.S. aid to the Haitian government was completely cut off in 2001-2004 after the 2000 election was disputed and President Aristide was accused of various misdeeds. After Aristide's departure in 2004, aid was restored, and the Brazilian army led the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti peacekeeping operation. Corruption is also very common on the island.

Haiti is expected to receive debt forgiveness for about $525 million of its debt through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative by mid-2009.

The population of Haiti is about 10,090,190 as of 2009. The ethnic groups of the population is 93.8% African descent, 5.4% Mulatto and 0.8% other. There is also a Asian minority and Arabs.


</doc>
<doc id="15864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15864" title="1500s">
1500s



</doc>
<doc id="15865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15865" title="1901">
1901

1901 (MCMI) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 20th century.





</doc>
<doc id="15866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15866" title="1880">
1880





</doc>
<doc id="15867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15867" title="1864">
1864




</doc>
<doc id="15868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15868" title="1897">
1897




</doc>
<doc id="15872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15872" title="Hodgenville, Kentucky">
Hodgenville, Kentucky

Hodgenville is a town in the American state of Kentucky. It is the county seat of Larue County. It is most famous as the birthplace of President Abraham Lincoln. A memorial featuring a replica (copy) of the cabin Lincoln was born in is near the town.


</doc>
<doc id="15874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15874" title="University of Oxford">
University of Oxford

The University of Oxford is a university located in Oxford in the United Kingdom. It is the oldest university in countries where English is the people's first language.

The university consists of 38 colleges and another 6 "private halls". All of these colleges have their own buildings and their own staff, making Oxford quite different from most modern universities where all the students live on a "campus". Oxford does not have a campus, although it does have some central places where students from different colleges can come together either to study (for example, libraries) or to enjoy themselves (for example, the Oxford Union).

Many people who study history think that there was a university in Oxford in the 11th century, and the University of Oxford grew bigger in 1167, after English students studying in Paris, France were not allowed to continue studying after St Thomas Becket was murdered on the orders of King Henry II of England. There were fights between the students in Oxford and the people who lived there in the early 13th century. Some students and teachers left the university in 1209, and made a new university in Cambridge. These two universities are now great rivals, and together are sometimes known as "Oxbridge".

Until 1920, women were not allowed to take degrees at Oxford, although some women studied at Oxford before that time. Nowadays all the colleges allow both men and women as students, and the number of male and female students is roughly equal.

One of the most famous teachers at the university was Lewis Carroll, author of "Alice in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking-Glass", nonsense stories for children.

There are 38 colleges at Oxford and 6 'permanent private halls'.

A college will normally offer the students accommodation (a room to sleep and study in) for the first and last years of their time at University. Many also offer accommodation for other years. A college will also have space for teaching and socializing. When most of the older colleges started they were only for people of one sex, but St Hilda's College, the last college to allow only women to study there, recently allowed men as well.

A permanent private hall is slightly different to a college. They were normally started by religious groups to educate their members in philosophy and theology, but some have since grown and offer a broader range of subjects. Some halls are run by monks and will only accept male students.

Most colleges will teach at both undergraduate (the more basic first degree that a student takes) and postgraduate (a higher level of study) level. There are also some special colleges who are more restrictive. Five college only offer space to postgraduate students. Harris Manchester college is only for 'Mature Students' (those who are over 21 when they start their degree). All Souls college does not take students - all of its members teach students or do research. 

Oxford, like Cambridge, is very popular with students, and therefore it is harder for students to get into these universities. The colleges look for the students with the best school results in the subjects for which they are applying.



</doc>
<doc id="15876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15876" title="Def Leppard">
Def Leppard

Def Leppard was one of the first hard rock bands in 1977. They formed in Sheffield, England in 1977. Its founding members include: lead singer Joe Elliot, bassist Rick Savage, guitarist Pete Willis, and drummer Tony Kenning. When Kenning was fired from the band in 1978, he was replaced by Frank Noon. The same year, Def Leppard had their first recording. They recorded "The Def Leppard EP". Frank Noon was replaced by drummer Rick Allen the same year and guitarist Steve Clark joined the band shortly after. They played their first show at Westfield School in Sheffield in the same year.

Their first album, "On Through the Night" (1980), was a hit in many parts of England. In April 1980, Def Leppard signed with Leber Krebs management. In the same year they went of their first U.S. tour with Ted Nugent, AC/DC, and Judas Priest. In 1981 the band released their second album, "High ‘n’ Dry". At that time, MTV aired Def Leppard for the first time. MTV aired their hit “Bringin’ on the Heartbreak.” 
In 1982, Pete Willis was replaced by Phil Collen. The same year, the recording with Mutt Lange for their third album takes place. In 1983, their third album "Pyromania" is released. The single “Photograph” was released and the album sells 100,000 copies a week for that year. In 1984, drummer Rick Allen suffers the loss of an arm due to a car accident. He soon mastered an electronic drum kit and teaches himself how to play with one arm. In 1986, Rick Allen plays his first gig out with the band since his accident. In 1987, the band’s fourth album, “Hysteria” is released. The album has 12 hit singles and sells 16 million copies. 
In 1991, guitarist Steve Clark passes away. His death was due to a mixture of alcohol and a drug overdose of prescription pain killers. In 1992 Vivian Campbell joins the band. Vivian Campbell was the former guitarist for Dio and Whitesnake. That year, the album “Adrenalize” is released. This album remains number one for five weeks and sells six million copies.
In 1993 the band has their first expirence having their music in movies. Their song “Two Steps Behind” was used for the end credits of “Last Action Hero”. The same year the album “Retro Active” is released. In 1995 “The Vault” is released. It is a compilation of all of Def Leppard’s biggest hits. “The Vault” hits number two on the charts. In 1996, the album “Slang” is released.
In 1998, Def Leppard had their first taste of tv. VH1 produced a “Behind the Music” episode on Def Leppard. Other tv exposure followed such as “Storytellers”, and “Ultimate Albums.” In 1999, they receive the Diamond Award in the U.S. Also in 1999, the album “Euphoria” is released. In the year 2000, the band is inducted into the Hollywood Rock Walk of Fame.
In 2001, the band releases their first DVDs, “In the Round, In your Face” and “Historia”. The same year, VH1 broadcasts the movie “Hysteria: The Def Leppard Story.” n 2002 the album “X” is released. In 2004 the band releases a newer version of the album “The Vault”. In 2005 the album and DVD “Rock of Ages” is released. In 2006, Def Leppard releases their album “Yeah”. The album “Yeah” is a cover album. In 2008 the band’s 12th album “Songs from the Sparkle Lounge” is released. The same year the band crosses genres with the country hit “Nine Lives.”



</doc>
<doc id="15878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15878" title="Husband (disambiguation)">
Husband (disambiguation)

A husband is the male spouse in a marriage.

Husband may also refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="15879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15879" title="46 BC">
46 BC




</doc>
<doc id="15880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15880" title="Winter storm">
Winter storm

Winter storms or snowstorms happen when warm, wet air meets with cold air. The warm, wet air mass and the cold air mass can each be 1000 km or more in diameter. Snowstorms affecting Northeastern United States often get their moisture from air moving north from the Gulf of Mexico and cold air from air masses coming down from the Arctic. In the Northwest United States warm, wet air from the Pacific Ocean cools when it is pushed upward by the mountains. Many different things can affect the direction of movement, content and temperature of air masses. All of these differences affect the type and severity of the snowstorm.

Winter storms and blizzards can make several feet of snow that blow into big drifts. Sometimes the drifts can be over ten feet tall. They could even cover a house.

Lots of popular winter storms are part of North America's history. In 1846 the Donner Party traveled away by covered wagons from Illinois headed for Sutter's Fort near Sacramento, California. As a answer of bad decisions and slow going, they tried to go across the big Sierra Nevada Mountains in the late October. Usually, California is still warm at that time of the year. As the party crossed the Sierra Nevada Mountains, they did not see any snow and was not worried.
However, after they left, a huge snowstorm hit. The party was forced to camp near Truckee, California. The snow was so deep that the wagon wheels became stuck, so they could not move anyplace. They tried to wait the storm out, but when one blizzard ended, another began immediately before they had time to escape.
Their food became short, so some of the people decided to hike out and find help rather than to starve to death. Most of them died in the freezing weather, and many of those who stayed behind in the camp survived. Of the 87 people who started in Illinois, only 47 lived. 


</doc>
<doc id="15886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15886" title="Sri Lanka">
Sri Lanka

The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (in Sinhala in Tamil) is a tropical island nation off the southeast coast of the Indian subcontinent. The capital of the country is Sri Jayawardanapura while the largest city is Colombo.

It was known as Ceylon before 1972, and Serendib and Sinhale, among other names, before that.
The Sri Lanka flag is also known as the Lion flag because of the Lion on it. The Lion is holding a sword in its right paw. There is a crimson background with four leaves in each corner. There is a yellow border. On the left of the flag there are the colors green and saffron.
The lion represents bravery. The four leaves represents Karuna, Meththa, Muditha and Upeksha. The orange stripe represents the Sri Lankan Tamils and the green stripe represents the Sri Lankan Moors.
Sri Lanka has 9 provinces.





</doc>
<doc id="15887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15887" title="Reptile">
Reptile

Reptile is the common name for one of the main groups of land vertebrates. It is not used so much by biologists, who use more accurate terms.

The name "reptile" comes from Latin and means "one who creeps". All living reptile species are cold blooded, have scaly skin, and lay cleidoic eggs. They excrete uric acid (instead of urea), and have a cloaca. A cloaca is a shared opening for the anus, urinary tract and reproductive ducts. Reptiles also share an arrangement of the heart and major blood vessels which is different from that of mammals.

Many important groups of reptiles are now extinct. The great marine reptiles of the Mesozoic era, the ichthyosaurs, plesiosaurs and mosasaurs, are extinct. We used to say the dinosaurs were extinct, but they survive in the form of their feathered descendents (birds). Ancient reptiles that do survive include the turtles, the crocodiles and the "Tuatara", the lone survivor of its group. The great majority of present-day reptiles are snakes and lizards.

The study of living reptiles is called "herpetology".

Reptilia is an "evolutionary grade" rather than a clade. The main reason is that the term 'reptile' does not include birds, the descendents of theropod dinosaurs. Thus instead of Reptilia as a taxonomic class, today most experts use Class Sauropsida (which includes all reptiles and birds, living and extinct). Class Synapsida includes mammals and all their forebears. "Reptile" is still the usual informal term to describe living Sauropsids (except birds). Mammals are a genuine clade, and hence Mammalia remains the taxonomic term. 

Since reptiles are not monophyletic, reclassifying them is one of the key aims of researchers. Some taxonomists, such as Benton, make Sauropsida and Synapsida as class-level taxa. The two groups split (probably) in the Lower Carboniferous, from stem-group Amniotes (the early tetrapods that laid cleidoic eggs).



</doc>
<doc id="15888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15888" title="Category:Reptiles">
Category:Reptiles

These articles are about Reptiles.


</doc>
<doc id="15890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15890" title="Snake">
Snake

A snake is a member of about 19 reptile families (suborder Serpentes, order Squamata) that has no limbs, voice, ears, or eyelids. They also have a long, slender body.

About 2,900 snake species are known to exist, and most of them live in the tropics. Their skin is covered with scales. They can see well, and they can taste the air with their tongues by flicking them in and out. Though they do not have a voice, they hiss instead. Most live on the ground, others live in the water, and some live under the soil. Snakes do not have legs. Like all reptiles, snakes need the heat of the sun to control their body temperature. That's why most snakes are in the warm, humid tropical regions of the world.

Snakes have lots of colors on their scales. Snakes that have dull coloured skin use it for camouflage. Those that have brightly coloured skin are usually poisonous. They use their bright colors to warn predators to stay off. Some non-poisonous snakes pretend to be poisonous by having the same patterns and bright colors of poisonous snakes to fool predators.

Snakes need to shed their skin regularly while they grow. This is called moulting. Snakes shed their skin by rubbing their head against something rough and hard, like a piece of wood or a rock. This causes the skin, which is already stretched, to split open. The snake keeps on rubbing its skin on various rough objects until the skin peels off from its head. This lets it crawl out, turning the skin inside out.

All snakes eat other animals. Some snakes are venomous. They use the poison in their teeth to help them bite and capture an animal at once. Constrictors are not venomous, so they simply strangle their prey. They move by pushing and pulling themselves with the muscles on the bottom of their bodies, and are very fast. They swallow their food whole, sometimes by dislocating their jaws. Once the snake's prey is in its body, its internal muscles crush it so the animal can be digested. They are cold-blooded carnivores and some eat large prey. Some feed on rodents such as mice, others may feed on birds, fish, eggs, lizards, or even other snakes. They capture their prey in many ways.

Even though snakes seem to eat a lot, they can go without eating for several days or longer. People who own pet snakes feed them as infrequently as once per month. Some snakes can go as long as six months without a good meal. 


</doc>
<doc id="15892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15892" title="Freddie Mercury">
Freddie Mercury

Freddie Mercury (born Farrokh Bulsara 5 September 1946 – 24 November 1991) was the lead singer for British rock band Queen.

Mercury was born in Stone Town in Zanzibar in Africa. His parents were Jer and Romi Bulsara. They were both Persian. His father worked as a High Court cashier in the government. Mercury had a younger sister named Kashmira. His friends at school gave him the name "Freddie." His family then began calling him Freddie too. 

At the young age of eight, Mercury was sent to a boarding school in India. The school, St. Peters English Boarding school, was around 50 miles outside of the city of Bombay (now called Mumbai). He grew up to be an amazing artist, and sportsman. At the age of ten he was named the school champion of Table Tennis. At the age of twelve he received a trophy called the Junior All-rounder. 

Mercury was more interested in music than anything else. He listened to anything he could find. He soon got the schooling he needed to be able to help his music career. He joined a choir and started learning how to play the piano. Like any young school-bound music prodigy, he liked music much more than his school work. He had a 3.5 octave vocal range. That is very large for anyone, but especially large for a man. 

Mercury moved to London with his family in 1964. He went to art college. While in London, he became very fond of a woman named Mary Austin. Although they never had a relationship together, they lived together before and after the band Queen took off and moved to a house in London nicknamed "The Court of King Freddie". Mary still lives in that house and allows fans to visit the house on the day of Mercury's death each year. 

Mercury was in love with a local barber when he died. They were happy in a loving relationship of six years when it was learned by the media that Mercury had AIDS. Two days after the news was broadcast, Mercury died of pneumonia caused by AIDS on 24 November 1991.



</doc>
<doc id="15893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15893" title="Sun Tzu">
Sun Tzu

Sun Tzu (544 BC – 496 BC) (孫子 pinyin: Sūn Zǐ) was a Chinese writer. He wrote "The Art of War", a very famous book on military strategy (how to fight wars). He is also one of the earliest realists in international relations theory.

The name "Sun Tzu" is a title of honour given to Sun Wu (孫武, Sūn Wǔ), the author's name. The word "Wu", meaning "martial" or "military", is same as the word in "wu shu" or "martial art". Sun Wu also has a courtesy name, Chang Qing (長卿, Cháng Qīng)


</doc>
<doc id="15897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15897" title="Western world">
Western world

When people say the Western world, they mean Europe, the Americas as a whole and Australia and New Zealand. 


</doc>
<doc id="15898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15898" title="Category:Flags">
Category:Flags

These articles are about flags.


</doc>
<doc id="15901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15901" title="Mouse">
Mouse

A mouse (plural "mice") is a rodent, which is a kind of mammal. These small animals are often used in science experiments, or sometimes kept as pets. Some mice carry diseases. This causes some people to think of mice as disgusting pests. Many other people think mice are cute and fun animals. 
Mice are rodents, therefore they are related to squirrels, rats, and beavers. The words rat and mouse are sometimes used to mean the same animal, but that is not correct. Mice eat weeds, seeds, berries, and more. They are eaten by owls, foxes, and cats, amongst others.

The common "House Mouse," is thought of as a pest. They are found in the cars and houses of humans.

"Main article: Vole"

"(not to be confused with moles)."

These are short-tailed mice. Female (girl) voles may have 17 litters (groups of babies) a year, with 4-9 babies in each litter.

These mice live in forests (which is where they get their name, because they live around deer in the forest). 
The aggressive "grasshopper mouse" sometimes eats other mice.

Two mice found in popular culture are Disney characters: Mickey and Minnie Mouse. Though they are mice, they can walk, talk, and act like people.

Chuck E. Cheese is another famous mouse. He is the mascot of Chuck E. Cheese's pizza restaurants.


</doc>
<doc id="15902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15902" title="Advance Wars">
Advance Wars

Advance Wars is a video game for the Game Boy Advance. It is based on earlier games for Nintendo systems such as the Famicom and Game Boy. It is a strategy game: players must think of ways to win.

The game can be played with two, three, or four players at a time. Each player takes turns controlling their military-style playing pieces, called "units." Every unit can move along the playing field, which is split up into squares. The amount of squares a unit can move in one turn is different for each unit.

Most units can attack other units. Each unit has its own strength and defense. Strength is how much damage the unit can do to another unit. Defense is how much damage it can avoid taking whenever it is attacked. For example, the tank unit has more defense than the soldier, so even though the helicopter always has the same amount of attacking power, it can do more damage to the soldier than the tank.


</doc>
<doc id="15905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15905" title="Solomon Islands">
Solomon Islands

The Solomon Islands are a group of islands in the South Pacific. They are known for their beauty and for the many languages spoken there. The capital of the Solomon Islands is Honiara.


</doc>
<doc id="15908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15908" title="Intestine">
Intestine

The intestines of an animal are like a hollow tube so that food and bile from the stomach can reach the rectum. They also take any useful compounds from the digested food through small villi or tiny microvilli. These are very small, hair-like structures in the walls of the intestine. It is also called bowel and is part of the alimentary canal between the stomach and the anus.


</doc>
<doc id="15909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15909" title="Chemical equation">
Chemical equation

A chemical equation is a way to predict the way that two or more chemicals will work together. Using what chemists know about the way chemicals act, we add the letter symbols together just like a math problem. In this way we can correctly guess if we will get a new chemical when we mix two or more chemicals together, and what that chemical will be.

Chemical equations are either worded or written using the elements' symbols, how much of the element and in what state (solid[s], liquid[l], gas[g]) it is in.

For example: An aqueous (liquid) solution of Sodium Chloride (NaCl[aq]) and another aqueous solution of Silver Nitrate (AgNO(aq)). These mixed together forms Sodium Nitrate (NaNO(aq)) and Silver Chloride (AgCl(s))

Which in symbols is:

NaCl(aq) + AgNO(aq) = NaNO(aq) + AgCl(s)

The solutions formed a solid named AgCl. This formation can be called a precipitate and the reaction between the two solutions a precipitation reaction, because the solid produced is not dissolved, whereas all the other products are dissolved.


</doc>
<doc id="15916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15916" title="Subtropical">
Subtropical

Subtropical describes those parts of the world that are north and south of the tropical zone. The edge of the tropical area in the north is the Tropic of Cancer at latitude 23.5°N and in the south it is the Tropic of Capricorn at 23.5°S. The subtropical area is between 20 and 40 degrees of latitude in both hemispheres. It has a mild climate.


</doc>
<doc id="15925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15925" title="Lucifer">
Lucifer

Lucifer is another name for "Satan". This is because people interpret a passage in the Book of Isaiah of the Bible in a certain way. Lucifer is Latin. It is made of two parts, "lux-lucis" (light) and "ferre" (to bring).
There are two mentions of "Lucifer" in the Latin Vulgate. It is used to refer to the morning star, the planet Venus that appears at dawn: once in to translate the Greek word "Φωσφόρος" (Phosphoros), which has exactly the same literal meaning of "Light-Bringer" that "Lucifer" has in Latin; and once in to translate "הילל" (Hêlēl), which also means "Morning Star".

"Lucifer" is the Latin name for the "Morning Star", both in prose and poetry, as seen in works by Marcus Terentius Varro (116–27 BC), Cicero (106-43 BC) and other early Latin writers

Cicero wrote:

And Pliny the Elder:

Poets also used the word "Lucifer". Ovid has at least eleven mentions of the Morning Star in his poetry. Virgil wrote: 

And Statius:

Lucifer is very evil in the Christian religion. He is also the symbol for not obeying. Lucifer is believed by some to be Satan's name when he was still an angel, but it is Latin for 'light bringer' and not originally in the Bible. 
The word "Lucifer" was also used in Latin to mean the "morningstar", the planet Venus, and this word was used in the Latin version of Isaiah 14, where the Hebrew version was speaking to a king of Babylonia. 

The reason people came to think this was a name of Satan has been argued about for many years. Some people think that it is a misnomer, or a wrongly given name. Others believe that he was the best out of all the angels before he rebelled against God.


</doc>
<doc id="15927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15927" title="Astrobiology">
Astrobiology

Astrobiology is the study of life in outer space. The field of astrobiology looks for conditions necessary for life, like liquid water, a good temperature, or the presence of oxygen.

Three possible places to find life in the solar system are Europa and Ganymede, moons of Jupiter and Titan, a moon of Saturn. These places may have liquid water. They are may be too cold to support life on their surfaces, but if they have liquid water, the water must be warm enough to support life..


</doc>
<doc id="15933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15933" title="Castle">
Castle

A castle (from the Latin word "castellum") is a fortified structure made in Europe and the Middle East during the Middle Ages. People argue about what the word "castle" means. However, it usually means a private structure of a lord or noble. This is different from a fortress, which is not a home, and from a fortified town, which was a public defence. For about 900 years that castles were built they had many different shapes and different details.

Castles began in Europe in the 9th and 10th centuries. They controlled the places surrounding them, and could both help in attacking and defending. Weapons could be fired from castles, or people could be protected from enemies in castles. However, castles were also a symbol of power. They could be used to control the people and roads around it.

Many castles were built with earth and wood at first often using manual labour, and then had their defences replaced by stone instead. Early castles often used nature for protection, and did not have towers. By the late 12th and early 13th centuries, though, castles became longer and more complex.

Europe began using gunpowder in the 14th century. It did not stop castle building at first. But by the 15th century, shots became powerful enough to break through stone walls. Castles were still built, but new ways to protect castles from cannons and guns made them uncomfortable places to live in. Because of this, people stopped building true castles. Instead, country houses or military forts were built. From the 18th century, people began building castles again from new interest in Gothic architecture, but they were not used for fighting.

The Word castle Means 

The word "castle" comes from the Latin word "castellum", which is a diminutive of the word "castrum", meaning "fortified place". The Old English "castel", French "château", Spanish "castillo", Italian "castello", and many other words in other languages also come from "castellum". The word castle became a part of the English language soon after the Norman Conquest to describe this new type of building. However, though these words all came from the same basic meaning, they can describe different types of structures. For example, the French "château" can simply be used to describe a great country house in the middle of an estate.

A castle is seen by most to be "a private fortified residence" (place to stay). This makes it different from earlier fortifications, such as walled cities like Constantinople and Antioch in the Middle East. Castles were not made to protect the community. They were built and owned by lords, either for themselves or for their ruler.

A castle's main defense was a wall. A wall was used to block the offensive side from breaking into a castle. The tops of the walls were cleverly made. Imagine a mouth smiling, but with every other tooth missing. The soldiers could hide behind the stone teeth and be safe, while they fired down at the soldiers attacking the castle. This feature was called battlements. The rooms inside the castle sometimes had small holes, or slits, cut in the walls, so the soldiers could fire out through them without being hit. These were called arrowloops. The way a person or thing got into a castle was through a gate. A gate was a mostly wooden structure with a heavy metal gate behind it. This was used for two purposes: To let allies in or out, To keep enemies out. If the offense did get past a gate, the offense would be littered with missiles and other objects through a murder hole in the upper part of the gate. The gate was also one of the most protected objects in a castle. 
Some castles also had moats which were water filled ditches encircling the whole castle where the only way in was over a drawbridge which was a heavy wooden door that could be pulled up by chains to protect the main gate and let down to act as a bridge over the moat to allow access to the castle. You could also pour oil that was hot down a hole.
The soldiers attacking the castle sometimes tried to knock down the castle walls, or dig under them. A siege was when the attackers just sat outside and waited. When the people inside were starving they had to give up and come out, which is called surrender. A siege could go on for months, if the castle had plenty of food and water.

Castles were built for defense until about 500 years ago, at the end of the Middle Ages. After that people still built very big stone buildings. They looked like castles, but they had bigger windows and more fireplaces and were much more comfortable. Really they were just great big houses. When castles were built to be homes instead of fortresses, the word 'Castle' was often put at the front of the name. One example is Castle Oliver in Ireland. This had 215 windows and 65 chimneys, as well as dozens of bedrooms. It was built about 150 years ago. It is very light and bright inside, because it was built to have parties, not to keep out soldiers.

Many castles are very beautiful and are public. Sometimes you can see furniture and clothes, armour, musical instruments, carpets, cannon and other weapons that once belonged to the people who lived there. Some castles have legends of ghosts. Some had very famous owners, like mad King Ludwig of Bavaria. Some, only a very few, are still lived in by the families who built them. Many others have become hotels or museums.
Castles seem romantic and mysterious to us now, but they were cold, dark places to live, often damp. Because the walls were so thick, sometimes 12 feet (4 metres) or more, they never got warm. Their windows also had no glass in them. Castles might have been safe, but they were not very comfortable.




</doc>
<doc id="15935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15935" title="Wikimedia Commons">
Wikimedia Commons

Wikimedia Commons is a website owned by the Wikimedia Foundation, based on a wiki. Anybody can upload images, sounds, videos, and other multimedia files to the website. The files uploaded to Wikimedia Commons can be used by any other Wikimedia Foundation project, like Wikipedia or Wiktionary. For example, Wikipedia uses images on Wikimedia Commons to include pictures in their encyclopedia articles.

Other websites based on wikis can also use files from Wikimedia Commons, even if they are unrelated to the Wikimedia Foundation.

Wikimedia Commons has categories, which are groups of files that have something in common or similar. For example, there is a category for pictures of cats. Wikimedia Commons is a multilingual website, meaning that it can be used in every language. However, some parts of Wikimedia Commons are only in English, like names of categories.

Wikimedia Commons also has sound files. Not all of these are music. For example, there are recordings that read words out loud. These files are used in Wiktionary, a free dictionary, to teach people how to say words. 

For every file on Wikimedia Commons, the person who made it has to let everybody use it and change it as much as they want, including companies (see Creative Commons). Wikimedia Commons does not allow using files without the permission of the people who made them, because that would break copyright laws.
Wikimedia Commons reached 10 million files on April 15, 2011.

The Wikimedia Foundation was given money to make it easier for people to use their websites. They used some of this money to make the UploadWizard, a new system for uploading files on Wikimedia Commons. People started using the UploadWizard in December 2010. 

The UploadWizard also teaches new uploaders about copyright law. It has a tutorial for users to read so that they can check if the file they are uploading is violating copyright.

Right now, the UploadWizard is not being used by everybody. Only a few people who want to try it are using it. But in the future everybody will use the UploadWizard.

Before, Wikimedia Commons only let people upload one file at a time. The UploadWizard lets people upload multiple files at the same time and include all the required information about each one.

The logo of Wikimedia Commons has a red circle inside a blue circle. There are many small blue arrows pointing from the blue circle to the red circle in the middle, and one big blue arrow pointing upwards. The small blue arrows represent the different projects of the Wikimedia Foundation. The large arrow is to show that Wikimedia Commons is constantly improving.

This logo was chosen in a vote in 2004.



</doc>
<doc id="15937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15937" title="Bulgaria">
Bulgaria

The Republic of Bulgaria is a country in southeastern Europe.

The capital and the biggest city is Sofia. The currency is the Bulgarian leva. The Bulgarian government is a member of the European Union and NATO. It is preparing to join the Euro zone. Therefore, Bulgaria would change over to the euro after several years. The current president is Georgi Parvanov. The population of Bulgaria is reported between 7.094- up to 7.351 million people.

Bulgaria's official language is Bulgarian. The Bulgarian language is a Slavic language. It is related to languages like Serbian and Russian. Bulgaria became independent in 1908 from the Ottoman Empire. Bulgaria borders Romania, Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Turkey, and the Black Sea.
One of the national heroes of Bulgaria is Vasil Levski. His real name is Vasil Ivanov Kunchev. He was born in Karlovo in 1837.

In what became todays Bulgaria many cultures took place, including, Neolithic, Hamangia culture, Vinča culture, eneolithic, Varna culture (5th millennium BC) and the Bronze Age Ezero culture. The thracians inhabited of modern Bulgaria. King Tere united the people in Odrysian kingdom around 500 BC. Alexander the Great had influence over the people on the 4th century and later by the roman empire 46 AD. Slavic people settled all over the territory of modern Bulgaria during the 6th century.

The first Bulgarian empire was established in 681 AD. But the first Bulgarian Empire came to fall under the pressure of the Byzantine Empire (se also Battle of Kleidion). The second Bulgarian empire, was ruined by the Ottoman empire for about 500 years until the Bulgarians rebelled against the Turkish rulers and exclaimed independence but still the power was under ottomans controls. After the first balkan war, Bulgaria pulled away from Ottoman Empires influence. But after the war it remained unclear in the management of southern Macedonia and no diplomatic solution arrived on time and the war on landmark erupted when Bulgaria wake up war against the alliance of Serbia and Greece which have allied together. When Serbia and Greece attacked Bulgaria the bulgarian army could resist them. But Romania arrogantly joined the alliance against Bulgaria, and pushed Bulgaria's land troops back. 

In a successful appearances in the first world war in alliance with the central powers and the country's administration and landmarks where largely unaffected. Bulgaria's army managed to resist the Romanian forces that fought against Central Powers. During the first year of World War II Bulgaria said it was neutral and refused to join pacts with Balkan, soviet or Germany. But the increased tension in the war made the leadership to sign the three-powers pact with Germany in March 1941. Which led to that German forces could entering through Bulgaria to reach Greece. And When Greece and Yugoslavia became invaded by the Nazis, Bulgaria began too change their mind.

In connection with the German Wehrmacht attack in Operation Barbarossa and also the country Finland, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia declared war against the Soviet Union. But Bulgaria refuse to participate in the attack against the Soviet with the arguments of that they did not like to wage war against a "Slavic brethren people."

In 1944 it became clear that Nazi Germany would lose the war after the decisive battle in the nord-est Europe against Romania was won by the Soviet Union. So now Bulgaria had to find and looking for another solution, whose leadership declared that they withdrew from the Axis forces and opened up their borders to Soviet troops. In 23 August 1944 when the most important protector, Romania's tyrannical dictator Ion Antonescu was captured by Soviet troops which made the Bulgaria's leadership to change their mind completely and the entire Nazi Axis troops were driven out of the country and Bulgaria said it was neutral again. But the Soviet didn't respect Bulgaria's transformation in to neutrality and therefore Soviet was making an coup against Bulgaria and they took over the control of the country. Soviet was replaced the country's royal monarchy with a communist regime before they withdrew from south East Europe.

In the early 1990s, as the Soviet Union began to collapse, Bulgaria grew more independent of Soviet policy. 

Within a few years of the fall of the Berlin Wall, Bulgaria experienced serious economic problems under the socialist government that took power after the communists fell in 1989. Since that time Bulgaria has recovered in some ways. After some real economic reform and responsible fiscal planning, the government has become more stable. Problems in the administration, a weak court system and organized crime are the biggest issues for Bulgaria.

Bulgaria's economy was dependent on the COMECON market, but succumbed in 1989. Living standards fell by 40 percent and a lot of newborn babies where sent to orphanages. United Nations sanctions against Yugoslavia affected Bulgaria's administration negatively.

In 1994 Bulgaria had a temporary economic boom. But that slowed down in 1996 due to the nature of bad international collaboration and unstable banks. Since 1997 the economy has grown steadily. Foreigners investors took place in Bulgaria and took for the whole trade. In addition very large privatization of the business.

Bulgaria have Europe's lowest income and corporate tax, 10 percent for both individuals and businesses. This makes Bulgaria a very attractive country to do business in. In addition, Bulgaria has a skilled and educated workforce. The average monthly salary in Bulgaria is 400 euro or $541 USD. The state does not respond anymore to free health care or other care. This system has been replaced by a contributory health insurance scheme, and drug costs are based on income. Private health care is encouraged nowadays. General unemployment compensation does not exist, but some compensation is based on family status and length of unemployment.

The retirement age for men is 63 years and for women 60 years.

Encompassing there are 6 Bulgarian development regions of 27 smaller provinces. The Bulgaria is mostly inhabited by bulgarians, turks and romani people. Bulgaria is classified as an development country by the EU.






</doc>
<doc id="15938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15938" title="Alps">
Alps

The Alps is the greatest mountain range of Europe. It reaches from Austria and Slovenia in the east; through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany; to France in the west. The original meaning of the word was 'white'.

The highest mountain in the Alps is Mont Blanc, at , on the Italian–French border.

The Alps stretch from Austria and Slovenia in the east, through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany to France in the west.

The mountains are divided into the Western Alps and the Eastern Alps. The division is along the line between Lake Constance and Lake Como, following the Rhine. The Western Alps are higher, but their central chain is shorter and curved; they are located in Italy, France and Switzerland. 

The Eastern Alps (main ridge system elongated and broad) belong to Austria, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein, Slovenia and Switzerland. The highest peaks of the Western Alps are Mont Blanc, 4,808 metres (15,774 ft), Mont Blanc de Courmayeur 4,748 metres (15,577 ft), the Dufourspitze 4,634 metres (15,203 ft) and the other summits of the Monte Rosa group, and the Dom, 4,545 metres (14,911 ft). The highest peak in the Eastern Alps is Piz Bernina, 4,049 metres (13,284 ft). Perhaps the most famous location for tourist to the Alps are the Swiss Alps.

The main chain of the Alps follows the watershed from the Mediterranean Sea to the Wienerwald, defining the northern border of Italy. It then passes over many of the highest and most famous peaks in the Alps. From the Colle di Cadibona to Col de Tende it runs to the west before turning to the northwest and then, to the north, near the Colle della Maddalena. Upon reaching the Swiss border, the line of the main chain goes about northeast, a heading it follows until its end near Vienna.

The Alps do not make an impassable block; they have been traveled by for war and commerce, and later by pilgrims, students and tourists. Crossing places by road, train or foot are called "passes". These are depressions in the mountains into which a valley leads from the plains and hilly pre-mountainous places.

The Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme (UIAA) has defined a list of 82 "official" Alpine 4,000-meter (13,123 ft) peaks. The list has many sub-peaks with little prominence, but good for mountaineering. Here are the twelve four-thousanders with at least 1 km prominence.

Karl Blodig was the first person to climb all the main four-thousand meter peaks, round 1900.

The reason mountains form is usually the moving together of continental plates of the Earth's crust. The Alps rose as a result of the slow but gigantic pressure of the African plate as it moved north against the stable Eurasian landmass.

This all took place in the Tertiary period, mostly in the Miocene and Pliocene. That's about 35 to 5 million years ago.

The Alps are just a part of a larger orogenic belt of mountain chains, called the Alpide belt. It reaches through southern Europe and Asia from the Atlantic Ocean most of the way to the Himalayas. 

A gap in these mountain chains in central Europe separates the Alps from the Carpathians off to the east. Subsidence is the cause of the gaps in between.

A great and ancient ocean was once between Africa and Europe, the Tethys Ocean. Now sediments of the Tethys Ocean basin and its Mesozoic and early Cenozoic strata sit high above sea level. Even metamorphic basement rocks are found high on Mont Blanc, the Matterhorn, and other high peaks in the Pennine Alps and Hohe Tauern.

The formation of the Mediterranean Sea is a more recent development.

The Alps are popular both in summer and in winter. The Alps as a place for sightseeing and sports. Winter sports (Alpine and Nordic skiing, snowboarding, tobogganing, snowshoeing, ski tours) can be learned in most regions from December to April. In summer, the Alps are popular with hikers, mountain bikers, paragliders, and mountaineers. There are also alpine lakes which attract swimmers, sailors and surfers. The lower places and bigger towns of the Alps are well served by motorways and main roads, but higher passes and by-roads can be bad even in the summer. Many passes are closed in winter. Many airports around the Alps (and some within), as well as long-distance rail links from all bordering countries, afford large numbers of travelers easy access from abroad. The Alps normally has more than 100 million visitors a year.

The typical trees—oak, beech, ash and sycamore maple have a natural height limit: the 'tree line'. Their upper limit matches the change in climate which comes with increasing height. The change from a temperate to a colder climate is also shown true by a change in the wild flowering plant life. This limit normally lies about above the sea on the north side of the Alps. On the southern slopes, it often reaches to , sometimes even to .

The Alps do not always have the typical trees. People have felled them in many places. Except for the beech forests of the Austrian Alps, forests of the typical deciduous trees are hardly found. Where such woods were, Scots pine and Norway spruce now grow. These trees are less sensitive to the attacks of goats who eat the saplings of deciduous trees.

Above the tree line, there is often a band of dwarf pine trees ("Pinus mugo"), which is taking place of dwarf shrubs. These shrubs are "Rhododendron ferrugineum" (on acid soils) or "Rhododendron hirsutum" (on non-acid soils). 

Above this is the alpine meadow. Above the alpine meadow is where plant life becomes less and less common. At these great heights, the plants are likely to make separate groups. In the Alps, many species of flowering plants have been recorded above . These are like "Ranunculus glacialis", "Androsace alpina" and "Saxifraga biflora".
Species common to the Alps. 


</doc>
<doc id="15939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15939" title="Rwanda">
Rwanda

Rwanda is a country in Africa. It is near Burundi, Congo-Kinshasa, Uganda, and Tanzania. The official language is Kinyarwanda. The country has three ethnic groups (though there is debate about whether or not these groups really are tribes): Bahutu, Batutsi and Batwa. It is now known mostly because it is the place where the most efficient genocide in history happened.

During the Scramble for Africa, Belgium conquered Rwanda. The Belgians then began to divide Rwandans into groups: Bahutu, and Batutsi. The Belgians picked people that they thought looked more European to be abatutsi. The rest became abahutu. The Belgians told Rwandans that Batutsi were superior to Bahutu. They allowed Batutsi to rule over Bahutu.

In 1962, Rwanda became independent and Bahutu were given power. Thus, anti-Tutsi purges occurred frequently. Many abatutsi fled to Uganda, where they formed the Rwandan Patriotic Front, or RFP, which tried to invade Rwanda in 1990.

On the night of April 6 1994, dictator Juvénal Habyarimana's plane was shot down, but it is still not clear who did it. Within a half hour, roadblocks manned by the Interahamwe militia were seen all over the capital, Kigali. The Rwandan Genocide had begun. It would last for about 100 days, and it would leave over one million, (1,000,000), Tutsi and moderate Hutu dead. The main weapon used was the machete, or "umupanga". Other countries paid little attention to the killing. On July 2 1994, the RPF captured Kigali.

Rwanda has now put behind its genocide history and now concentration on building the economy through tourism and other means. Rwanda is famous for the mountain gorillas in Parc De Volcans. Tourism is one of the top foreign exchange earners in Rwanda. More information on Rwanda Safaris Guide,


</doc>
<doc id="15940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15940" title="Lake Ontario">
Lake Ontario

Lake Ontario is the smallest of the Great Lakes in North America. 

It is found on the border between Canada and the United States of America. Its inlet is the Niagara River (from Niagara Falls), and its outlet is the Saint Lawrence River. Nearly 9 million Canadians live near Lake Ontario. It is also the only Great Lake that does not touch the U.S. state of Michigan, the "Great Lakes State".


</doc>
<doc id="15941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15941" title="Lake Superior">
Lake Superior

Lake Superior is a lake in Canada and the United States. 

The Ojibwe Native Americans call it Gitchigume. Lake Superior is in between Ontario and Minnesota to the north and Wisconsin and Michigan in the south, and is the largest of North America's Great Lakes. It is the world's third largest lake, and the world's largest freshwater lake (by area).


</doc>
<doc id="15942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15942" title="SS Edmund Fitzgerald">
SS Edmund Fitzgerald

SS Edmund Fitzgerald was a freight ship on Lake Superior, carrying iron ore, which suddenly sank on November 10, 1975 at around 7:30 PM. Nobody knows why the boat actually sunk. All 29 men aboard the boat died. The people who were on the boat were remembered by their families and in a song called The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald by Canadian singer Gordon Lightfoot. 



</doc>
<doc id="15944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15944" title="Gordon Lightfoot">
Gordon Lightfoot

Gordon Meredith Lightfoot, Jr. CC, born November 17, 1938, is a Canadian singer and songwriter. He is famous around the World for his folk, country, and pop music songs. He was first heard in the 1960s and had hit radio songs in the 1970s such as: ""If You Could Read My Mind"", ""Sundown"", ""Carefree Highway"', ""Rainy Day People"" and ""The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald".

Some of his songs have been recorded by other famous singers including: Elvis Presley, Johnny Cash, Marty Robbins, Jerry Lee Lewis, Barbra Streisand and Tony Rice

Robbie Robertson of the Canadian music group called The Band said Gordon Lightfoot was his "favourite Canadian songwriters."

Gordon Lightfoot's music career has lasted almost fifty years and he has recorded more than 200 songs. His folk music of the 1960s and 1970s influenced many famous singers including Bob Dylan and Jim Croce. Like Robertson, Bob Dylan called Lightfoot one of his favourite songwriters.

In his career Gordon Lightfoot has received sixteen Juno Awards. He won Junos as ""top folk singer"" in 1965, 1966, 1968, 1969, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977. He won a Juno as ""top male vocalist"" in 1967, 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973 And he won in 1972 and 1976 for being ""composer of the year."" He received ASCAP awards for songwriting in 1971, 1974, 1976 and 1977. And he has been nominated for five Grammy Awards. In 1980 Gordon Lightfoot was named ""Canadian Male Recording Artist of the Decade"" for his music of the 1970s. 

Gordon Lightfoot was inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1986 and he was added to Canada's Walk of Fame in 1998. He was inducted into the Canadian Country Music Hall Of Fame in 2001.

In May 2003 he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada which is one of Canada's highest awards.




</doc>
<doc id="15957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15957" title="Chameleon">
Chameleon

A chameleon is a reptile. Some kinds of this animal change the colours of their skins under influence of mood, light and temperature. Chameleons have long sticky tongues that they can stretch up to two times their body size. Their eyes can move independently. The name chameleon means an earth lion which comes from the Greek word chamai which means earth and leon meaning lion. They are lizards with scales and feet eclipsed with sharp claws. The largest species is about 1.5 feet when fully grown. They are mainly insectivores, but they do take occasional smaller lizards. They can be found in Europe, the USA, and Africa (mostly Madagascar).



</doc>
<doc id="15961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15961" title="Interjection">
Interjection

An interjection is a spoken or written expression of emotion like "Wow!" for surprise, "Ouch!" for pain, or "Argh!" for frustration. These phrases can stand alone, and are usually capitalized and punctuated.


</doc>
<doc id="15962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15962" title="Millard Fillmore">
Millard Fillmore

Millard Fillmore (January 7, 1800 - March 8, 1874) was the 13th President of the United States. He was President from 1850 to 1853. Fillmore was the last person from the Whig Party to be president.

Fillmore became president in 1850 when the 12th president (Zachary Taylor) died. The Whig party did not pick him to run for president in 1852. He ran for president in 1856 for the Know Nothing Party, but lost.

Millard Fillmore grew up in a poor family. He worked hard to do well in school, and went to college. He got a job as a lawyer in 1823. In 1828 he was voted to be part of the New York congress, and made friends in the Whig Party. This helped him get chosen to run for vice president in 1848.

When he was vice president, Millard Fillmore was in charge of the United States Senate while it was fighting over a decision about slavery involving Texas and New Mexico. 

When he became president, the slavery issue was very intense (to the point where the southern states were close to choosing to not be a part of the United States anymore).

Fillmore signed the Compromise of 1850 (five laws which would calm down the slavery issue by pleasing both the northern states and the southern states). Although, the Compromise of 1850 made the northern states and the southern states get along, the peace did not last forever. In the late 1850's the north and the south stopped getting along.

His decision to sign the Compromise of 1850 made many of the people in his Whig Party upset at him. They stopped him from running for president in 1852.

He started the first library at the White House.

After Fillmore, Franklin Pierce became the 14th president. Fillmore got a job in charge of the University of Buffalo. Fillmore joined the Know Nothing Party and tried to run for president again, but the Know Nothing Party was not very successful.

There is a statue of Millard Fillmore at City Hall in Buffalo, New York.



</doc>
<doc id="15963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15963" title="John Tyler">
John Tyler

John Tyler was the 10th President of the United States of America, from 1841 to 1845. He was the first vice president to become president after the president before him died. He lived from March 29, 1790 to January 18, 1862.

Tyler grew up in Virginia and became a lawyer. His father was also a lawyer who later became governor of Virginia. Tyler became a state representative in the United States Congress, and then also became governor of Virginia like his father.

Tyler started in government as a member of the Democratic Party, but later he changed to the Whig Party, which was very new. He was chosen to run as vice president next to William Henry Harrison. Whig Party people used to say "Tippecanoe and Tyler Too" to get people to vote for them. (William Henry Harrison was famous for being a general in a battle in a place called Tippecanoe, and that was his nickname.)

Harrison and Tyler won the election, but Harrison died one month later. Tyler then became president.

Some people thought that Tyler was not the real president, because he had not been elected. But the United States Constitution says that the vice president takes over if the president dies, and Tyler said that meant he was the new president. At first, the rest of the government agreed and declared him the new president. But the Whig Party did not want Tyler to be president, and a lot of people called him "the accidental president" or "His Accidency".

Tyler made the Whig Party angry when he picked people from the other party (the Democratic Party) to work in his government. He wanted to bring the two Parties to work together, but instead this made him unpopular. He rejected many of the Whigs' ideas. The Whig Party decided not to pick him to run for president in 1844.

While he was president, Florida became a new state. Texas was its own country, after winning a war against Mexico. Tyler wanted Texas to be a U.S. state and tried to make this happen while president, but it did not happen until a few months afterwards.

The Whig Party did not want Tyler to be president again, and did not pick him to run for president in 1844. He had some friends in the Democratic Party who sometimes asked him for ideas, but that Party did not like him enough to be president, either. Tyler was sometimes called "the President without a party" since both groups did not want him.

When the Confederate States of America was created, Tyler thought that states should be allowed to make their own laws, even about slavery. He did not want a civil war. Instead, he tried to get the United States to agree to let the southern states keep slavery. But the United States Congress said no, and Tyler decided that Virginia had to join the Confederacy. He later was elected to the Confederate congress, but died before taking the job.



</doc>
<doc id="15964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15964" title="Peter Davison">
Peter Davison

Peter Davison (born Peter Moffett April 13, 1951) is an English actor. He is best known for his roles as Tristan on "All Creatures Great and Small", and as the Fifth Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1981 to 1984.


</doc>
<doc id="15965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15965" title="Ballerina">
Ballerina

A ballerina is a name given to a female ballet dancer. Only very good female ballet dancers were called ballerinas. A ballerina was a principal dancer in a classical ballet company; today they are simply called 'Principal dancers'. Dancers in a company are ranked by the company, and paid accordingly. They had to prove themselves in lesser parts before they could get promoted. The topmost female dancer in a company was usually called the prima ballerina.

Example of the ranks in a modern dance company:



</doc>
<doc id="15966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15966" title="Buffalo, New York">
Buffalo, New York

Buffalo is a city in the U.S. state of New York. Buffalo is the second-biggest city in New York State. 

There are about 280,000 people in the city of Buffalo. There are more than a million people in the surrounding area. 

Buffalo is on the eastern side of Lake Erie near the Niagara River. It is close to Niagara Falls, and to Canada. 

Buffalo has an NFL team called the Buffalo Bills (who play in the suburb of Orchard Park, NY) and an NHL team called the Buffalo Sabres.


</doc>
<doc id="15975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15975" title="1394">
1394





</doc>
<doc id="15976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15976" title="Template:Wikibooks-en">
Template:Wikibooks-en


</doc>
<doc id="15977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15977" title="Hertford">
Hertford

Hertford is the county town of Hertfordshire, England.


</doc>
<doc id="15978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15978" title="Jackie Chan">
Jackie Chan

Jackie Chan (成龍) (born on 7 April 1954) is an actor, director, stuntman and singer from Hong Kong. He was famous for his action-comedies. He also appeared in the "Jackie Chan Adventures" TV series. He is the father of actor and singer Jaycee Chan..

In his earlier roles Chan did all of the dangerous stunts without safety equipment. Possibly the role where this was taken farthest is "Rumble in the Bronx" (his breakthrough American movie) where he subjected his already aging body to several leaps and falls which, while finally gaining his American stardom, led to injuries including a broken ankle..

His two worst injuries occurred during the making of "Armour of God" and "Police Story". Footage of the former's aftermath was shown over the credits and showed a subdued and bloodied Chan in a spinal injury stretcher.. A tree branch he was to swing off snapped when he jumped for it. Chan fell 10 metres onto rocky ground.

In "Police Story", Chan was doing a stunt where he fell five or six stories through a series of window canopies. Chan became disorientated halfway down. Instead of landing on his feet, Chan fell in a head-down position. His arms became caught in the material of the last canopy. He landed head first. His head was forced to the side as he could not break his fall with his arms.

While the "Police Story" fall looked worse, Chan has said that the "Armour of God" fall was the closest he has come to death while filming.






</doc>
<doc id="15983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15983" title="Category:67 deaths">
Category:67 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15985" title="Ron Weasley">
Ron Weasley

Ronald Bilius "Ron" Weasley is a character from the "Harry Potter" stories. He is a red haired child, who comes from a poor background. He wishes he had money. He comes from a big family, with five brothers and one sister. He is Harry Potter's best friend. It is revealed in later books, that Ron is romantically interested in Hermione Granger. The two are hinted to be romantically involved in the Deathly Hallows.


</doc>
<doc id="15986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15986" title="Hermione Granger">
Hermione Granger

Hermione Granger is a character from the "Harry Potter" series. She is one of Harry's best friends. She spends a lot of time with Harry and Ron Weasley. Her parents are Muggles (not magical) though she is very clever and a very good witch. Her mind is full of intelligence and her forte is the ability to remember all that she has read. Due to this, Hermione can ace her tests. Although she is smart, she also is brave and has street-smarts. She can be a little bossy to Ron and Harry. She cares about house-elves and has made the club S.P.E.W., the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, which Ron calls "Spew." Her appearance is made up of frizzy brown hair, dark brown eyes, and slightly freckled skin. It is also noted at the end of "Deathly Hallows" that she marries Ron and they have two children together. She belongs to Gryffindor, though the Sorting Hat thought about putting her in Ravenclaw.


</doc>
<doc id="15989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15989" title="Milk shake">
Milk shake

In North America, a milk shake (or milkshake) is a cold drink usually made with milk, ice cream, and sweet syrups, such as chocolate syrup, mixed in a blender. People usually drink milkshakes with a drinking straw and from a tall glass or cup.

Milk shakes are similar to smoothies. Smoothies are a type of cold drink made with an electric blender. Smoothies are made with a liquid (either milk, fruit juice, or water), crushed ice or ice cubes, different fruits, and honey or maple syrup.

Milk shakes and other cold drinks such as "ice cream floats" (a scoop of ice cream placed in a glass of cola or other carbonated soda drink) or "malts" (a milk shake with malt powder added to it) were popular among teenagers in the 1950s. Teenagers would go to ice cream parlors and order cold drinks.


</doc>
<doc id="16003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16003" title="Bollington">
Bollington

Bollington is a village in Cheshire. The village is home to over twenty pubs. Bollington was home to the biggest water wheel in England and only second in Britain to the Laxey wheel in the Isle of Man. The wheel powered huge mills for the production of cotton. Two of the huge mills were the Adelphi and Clarence.

By 1914 Bollington had a population of around 6000 people and was dominated by fine cotton spinning. The symbol of Bollington has to be White Nancy. A small white cone-like house stands alone on top of a hill overlooking all of Bollington. It was built by the Gaskell family early in the nineteenth century. It has now been sealed. 

Sport has been important in the life of Bollington. Even though the village did not have a football team successful enough to rival the cricket team it was still very popular amongst the people of Bollington. The most popular team was St Johns team which was quite successful in the lower leagues. Today there are good teams competing in the amateur leagues such as Bollington United.


</doc>
<doc id="16006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16006" title="Kentucky Fried Chicken">
Kentucky Fried Chicken

Kentucky Fried Chicken or KFC is a chain of fast food restaurants known for their fried chicken. It was started by a man named Colonel Harland Sanders in Corbin, Kentucky in 1952. They are now all over the world. They not only sell chicken, but other things like salads and french fries. "It's Finger Lickin' Good!" has been their slogan since it was created.

KFC has been criticised for different things. Greenpeace accused KFC of destroying the Amazon Rainforest. This is because KFC bought their soy they use for chicken food from Cargill. The soy has been traced back to the European KFC. Cargill has reportedly been exporting soy illegally for several years. The Greenpeace organization researched the issue and brought it to the attention of the parent company YUM! Brands, Inc. The parent company denied the illegal operation, and said that their supply of soy is grown in parts of Brazil. Greenpeace has called on KFC to stop purchasing soy from Cargill, to avoid contributing to the destruction of the Amazon.

Since 2003, animal rights and welfare organizations, led by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), have been protesting KFC’s treatment of the animals used for its products. These groups claim that the recommendations of the KFC Animal Welfare Advisory Council have been ignored. Adele Douglass, a former member of the council, said in an SEC filing reported on by the Chicago Times, that KFC "never had any meetings. They never asked any advice, and then they touted to the press that they had this animal-welfare advisory committee. I felt like I was being used."

KFC responded by saying the chickens used in its products are bought from suppliers like Perdue Farms, Tyson Foods, and Pilgrim's Pride, and that these suppliers are routinely monitored for animal welfare violations. Several PETA undercover investigations and videos of these and other KFC suppliers purport to show chickens being beaten, ripped apart, and thrown against walls contradict KFC’s claims. PETA has criticised some of the practices of chicken breeders, such as beak trimming and overcrowding, but KFC says its suppliers meets UK legal requirements. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs recommends a maximum stocking density of 34 kg—around 30 chickens—per square metre, and say that in circumstances where beak trimming needs to be carried out to prevent the birds injuring each other, only one third of the beak should be trimmed "measured from the tip towards the entrance of the nostrils". PETA states that they have held more than 12,000 demonstrations at KFC outlets since 2003 because of this alleged mistreatment of chickens by KFC suppliers.

In June 2008, KFC Canada agreed to PETA's demands for better welfare standards, including favoring suppliers who use controlled-atmosphere killing (CAK) of chickens, and other welfare standards as well as introducing a vegan sandwich at 65% of its outlets. PETA has called off its campaign against KFC Canada, but continues to demonstrate against KFC elsewhere in the world.



</doc>
<doc id="16025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16025" title="Cytoplasm">
Cytoplasm

The cytoplasm is a semi-liquid substance that contains a eukaryotic cell's organelles. It refers to both the cytosol (the actual liquid) and a cell's organelles, but not the nucleus or the cell membrane. The cytoplasm surrounds the nucleus, and is home to the other organelles. The cytoplasm consists mainly of cytosol, and crucial chemical reactions happen with it. It is usually what remains when a cell dies. In simpler prokaryotic cells, there is no distinction between individual organelles and the cytoplasm. Rather, enzymes, DNA, and RNA float around. Prokaryotic cytoplasm is capable of flow, unlike eukaryotic cells. The simplest way to consider cytoplasm is to view it as the "goo" of a cell, including its functional organelles but excluding the nucleus.


</doc>
<doc id="16026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16026" title="Crusades">
Crusades

When the Crusades happened, Muslims controlled the Holy Land (Israel). The Holy Land is a place that is very important for the three major monotheistic religions: Islam, Judaism, and Christianity. There are many important religious sites in the Holy Land. This is the land now called Israel or Palestine. 

Muslims got control of Nazareth, Bethlehem and other religious sites during the Caliphate of Omar (634-44). (A Caliph is a kind of religious and political leader in an Islamic state.)

There were many different crusades. The most important and biggest Crusades happened from the 11th century to the 13th century. There were 9 big Crusades in this time. They are numbered 1 through 9. There were also many smaller Crusades. Some crusades were even within Europe (for example, in Germany and Austria). The smaller Crusades continued to the 16th century, until the Renaissance and Reformation.

The word "Crusade" is related to the word "Cross", and means a Christian holy war. There is also the Arabic word "Jihad", referring to a holy war fought by Muslims. All sides (Christians, Muslims, and Jews) believed very much in their religions. They also had political reasons for fighting. The strong belief made people less able to understand other people during times when there was no peace. The Crusades and Jihads caused very much loss of life and property for all sides. Much of the conflict between religions today is still partly from the Crusades and Jihads. The Crusades led to the bloodshed of many innocent people and it affected people's views forever (Dr. Omar Hajjar of Columbia).

Alexius I was a ruler of the Byzantine Empire. When Alexius called for help to defend his empire against the Seljuk Turks, in 1095 Pope Urban II asked all Christians to join a war against the Turks. The Pope told the Christians that fighting the war would repay God for their sins and that if they died on a crusade they would go straight to heaven. The Christian soldiers were called "crusaders". The armies marched to Jerusalem, attacking several cities on their way. In 1099 they won the battle for Jerusalem, and killed many. As a result of the First Crusade, several small countries were created. One was named the Kingdom of Jerusalem. A main cause of the crusade was the desperate need for land and retaking Jerusalem gave them both their Holy Land and land to live on.

After some years of peace, a man named St. John of Clairvaux called for a new crusade when the town of Edessa was attacked by the Turks. French and German armies marched to Asia in 1147, but were defeated.

In 1187, Saladin recaptured Jerusalem. Pope Gregory VIII started a new crusade, led by several of Europe's kings: Philip II of France, Richard I of England and Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor. Frederick drowned in Cilicia in 1190. Richard left in 1192 after agreeing to stop the fighting with Saladin. On Richard's way home, his ship was wrecked, leading him to Austria. In Austria his enemy Duke Leopold captured him, and Richard was held.

The Fourth Crusade was started by Pope Innocent III in 1202, with the idea to attack the Holy Land through Egypt. The Venetians changed this crusade, and went to the Christian city of Constantinople, where they attempted to place a Byzantine exile on the throne. After a series of misunderstandings and outbreaks of violence, the city was sacked in 1204.

The Albigensian Crusade was started in 1209 to eliminate the Cathars of southern France.

The Children's Crusade is a crusade of [1212]. The story is that an outburst of the old popular enthusiasm led a gathering of children in France and Germany. A boy, from either France or Germany said that Jesus had visited him, and told him to peacefully convert Muslims to Christianity. Following this vision, many children formed bands, and marched to Italy. There, they were put onto ships which either capsized in a storm, or which went to [Morocco], where the children were sold into [slavery]. There are several versions of the story. This had led some people to believe that this did not really happen but most people do believe.

It looks like there were really two groups of people who moved, in 1212. Both movements were very similar. For this reason, those who wrote the chronicles put them together, as a single movement.

In the first movement, Nicholas, a shepherd from Germany, led a group across the Alps and into Italy in the early spring of 1212. About 7,000 arrived in Genoa in late August. However, their plans did not bear fruit when the waters failed to part as promised and the band broke up. Some left for home, others may have gone to Rome, while still others may have travelled down the Rhône to Marseille where they were probably sold into slavery. Few returned home and none reached the Holy Land.

The second movement was led by a "shepherd boy" named Stephen de Cloyes near the village of Châteaudun. In June of that year, the boy said that he had a letter for the king of France from Jesus. He could gather a crowd of over 30,000 and went to Saint-Denis. There he was seen to work miracles. On the orders of Philip II, on the advice of the University of Paris, the crowd was sent home, and most of them went. None of the contemporary sources mentions plans of the crowd to go to Jerusalem.

Later chroniclers elaborated on these events. Recent research suggests those taking part were not children, at least not the very young. In the early 1200s, bands of wandering poor started cropping up throughout Europe. These were people displaced by economic changes at the time which forced many poor peasants in northern France and Germany to sell their land. These bands were referred to as "pueri" (Latin for "boys") in a condescending manner, in much the same way that people from rural areas in the United States are called "country boys."

In 1212, a young French "puer" named Stephen and a German "puer" named Nicholas separately began claiming that they had each had similar visions of Jesus. This resulted in these bands of roving poor being united into a religious protest movement which transformed this forced wandering into a religious journey. The "pueri" marched, following the Cross. They associated themselves with Jesus's biblical journey. This, however, was not a prelude to a holy war. 

At that time, chronicles were mostly kept by the Catholic Church. They were written in Latin.

Thirty years later, chroniclers read the accounts of these processions and translated "pueri" as "children" without understanding the usage. So, the Children's Crusade was born. The resulting story illustrates how ingrained the concept of Crusading was in the people of that time— the chroniclers assumed that the pueri must have been Crusaders. In their innocence, they returned to the foundations of crusading characteristic of Peter the Hermit, and met the same sort of tragic fate.

According to Matthew Paris, one of the leaders of the Children's Crusade became "Le Maître de Hongrie," the leader of the Shepherds' Crusade in 1251.

During 1213 AD, Pope Gregory IX pushed Frederick II into leading the Fifth Crusades. 
The Church tried another crusade to attack the Holy Land. A crusading force from Hungary, Austria, and Bavaria captured Damietta, a city in Egypt, in 1219. The crusaders had to surrender, due to a losing the battle for Cairo.
This crusade only last for one year. From 1228-1229.

In 1228, Emperor Frederick II set sail from Brindisi for Syria. He did this after the Pope excommunicated him. By talking to the Turks he had success, and Jerusalem, Nazareth, and Bethlehem was given to the Crusaders for ten years without fighting. This was the first major crusade not initiated by the Papacy, a trend that was to continue for the rest of the century.

The Templars argued with Egypt in 1243. In 1244, Egypt attacked Jerusalem. Louis IX of France started a crusade against Egypt from 1248 to 1254. It was a failure, and Louis spent much of the crusade living in Acre. In the midst of this crusade was the first Shepherds' Crusade in 1251.

The Eighth Crusade was organized by Louis IX in 1270, to help the Crusader states in Syria. However, the crusade was diverted to Tunis, where Louis spent only two months before dying.

Before he was king, Edward I of England started a crusade in 1271. He retired the following year after a truce. 
The Crusader states lost everything after this.

In time, the people went on Crusades for other purposes. They had become sad because they had often lost, lost people they loved, and had to pay lots of tax to help the Crusades. The Crusades ended two centuries after they had begun.

Although the Crusades did not do their first purpose, and there were lots of bad results, there were some good results. People learned to be more understanding to others. They brought back new ideas, new materials for clothing, lots of cultures, and new spiritual views. Many Catholics began to think that gentle ways should be used to make people believe in Catholicism. Monks helped people of all religions. Sometimes, two religious groups fought together and also held their services in the same building.



</doc>
<doc id="16028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16028" title="Saladin">
Saladin

A sultan Ṣalāḥ ad-Dīn Yūsuf ibn Ayyūb (1138–1193) was a famous arabic Sultan during the Crusades. (From Arabic derive from old Assyrian means power, rule, government, later as a kings title) People in Europe and the United States also call him "Saladin". Many Muslims consider him a hero for defeating the Crusaders over twenty years worth of battles.

He founded the Ayyubid dynasty of Egypt, Syria, Yemen (except for the Northern Mountains), Iraq, Mecca Hejaz and Diyar Bakr. Salah ad-Din is a title which translates to "The Righteousness of the Faith" from Arabic.

Many books were written about Saladin, the things he did and the battles he won. "Daastaan Imaan Farooshoon Ki" is one book in Urdu written by Althamash that says very good things about Saladin.


</doc>
<doc id="16034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16034" title="1889">
1889




</doc>
<doc id="16035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16035" title="Category:1193 deaths">
Category:1193 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16036" title="Category:1193">
Category:1193


</doc>
<doc id="16037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16037" title="Category:1394">
Category:1394


</doc>
<doc id="16040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16040" title="Category:1874 deaths">
Category:1874 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16041" title="Category:1800 births">
Category:1800 births


</doc>
<doc id="16042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16042" title="Category:1800">
Category:1800


</doc>
<doc id="16043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16043" title="Category:1790 births">
Category:1790 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1790.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16050" title="1877">
1877




</doc>
<doc id="16051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16051" title="1860">
1860



</doc>
<doc id="16058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16058" title="Aphex Twin">
Aphex Twin

Aphex Twin (born Richard David James, August 18, 1971, in Limerick, Ireland) is an Irish-born Cornish musician. He lives and works in the United Kingdom. He is very famous for making electronic music (this means that he does not use instruments (for example, guitars and pianos) to make music).

Aphex Twin is not his real name. His real name is Richard David James. His name is a combination of Aphex Systems Limited, a brand of audio signal processing equipment and the word Twin to remember his twin brother. His twin was stillborn, but given the name Richard James.

Aphex Twin was born in Limerick, Ireland. He grew up in Cornwall, U.K. He started to make music when he was a teenager. In 1991, he formed a record label called Rephlex Records.

After he became well known, he moved to London. This was so he could be in a place that was closer to other people. He however returned to Cornwall a few years later after meeting his wife. He still makes a lot of music today and uses many different pseudonyms (names). He lives in an old bank. He has bought interesting things like a tank and a submarine.




AFX

Bradley Strider

Caustic Window

Gak

Martin Tressider

In the Universal Indicator series:


Polygon Window

Power Pill


Q-Chastic

Universal Indicator




</doc>
<doc id="16065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16065" title="Niagara Falls">
Niagara Falls

Niagara Falls is the group name of three big waterfalls on the Niagara River in eastern North America, on the border between the United States and Canada. The three waterfalls are: the Horseshoe Falls, sometimes called the Canadian Falls, the American Falls, and the smaller Bridal Veil Falls.

Although not very high, Niagara Falls is very wide, and is probably the most popular waterfall in the world. The Horseshoe Falls are the largest out of the three falls. It is named the Horseshoe Falls because it looks like a horseshoe. 


</doc>
<doc id="16125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16125" title="1831">
1831




</doc>
<doc id="16126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16126" title="1842">
1842



</doc>
<doc id="16129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16129" title="Custard">
Custard

Custard is kind of food prepared with milk and eggs. Custard can be the dessert or its sauce.

Custard is an important part of dessert recipes from many countries, including the United Kingdom, France, Portugal, Spain, Italy, and Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="16130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16130" title="Huckleberry">
Huckleberry

Huckleberry is a name used in North America for several plants in two closely related genera in the family "Ericaceae": "Gaylussacia" and "Vaccinium". The Huckleberry is the state fruit of Idaho.

Some "Vaccinium" species, such as the Red Huckleberry, are always called huckleberries. Other species may be called blueberries or huckleberries in different locations.

There is much confusion in naming of berries in American English. The 'garden huckleberry' ("Solanum melanocerasum") is not a true huckleberry but a member of the nightshade family.

The fruit of most species of huckleberry can be eaten. The berries are small and round. They are usually less than 5 mm in diameter and contain 10 seeds. Berries range in color from bright red, through dark purple, and into the blues. In taste the berries range from tart to sweet. They have a flavor similar to that of a blueberry. Huckleberries are well liked by many mammals such as bears and humans.


</doc>
<doc id="16131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16131" title="Cheesecake">
Cheesecake

A cheesecake is a dessert made of cream cheese, milk, eggs, and flour and usually has a graham cracker crumb base. The graham cracker crumb base is sometimes held together by melted butter. The filling is mostly cream cheese with some sugar to sweeten it and sometimes sour cream to make it easier to shape and fill the crust.

Cheesecake has a smooth texture, and comes in a variety of flavours such as strawberry, blueberry, lemon, and so on. It is often topped with fruit or chocolate. Cheesecake is a pie although its name has the word "cake" in it.

The cheesecake is believed to have come from Greece. The earliest writer who wrote about cheesecakes is Aegiums, who wrote a book how to make cheesecakes (). Historians think that cheesecake was served to the athletes during the first Olympic Games held in 776 B.C. However, cheese making began at about 2,000 B.C., and anthropologists have found cheese molds dating back to that period. Alan Davidson, author of the Oxford Companion to Food, wrote that, "cheesecake was mentioned in Marcus Porcius Cato's De re Rustica around 200 BCE and that Cato described making his cheese libum (cake) with results very similar to modern cheesecake."

The Romans spread cheesecake from Greece to across Europe. Centuries later, cheesecake appeared in America, the recipes brought over by immigrants.

There is an all-garlic restaurant in Stockholm where they offer a garlic cheesecake.

Cheesecake may be thought as an American classic, but they have been popular through all ages. Cheesecakes of differing types were popular in ancient Greece.

Sonya Thomas holds the world record for eating the most cheesecakes in a given time. She ate 11 pounds of cheesecake in nine minutes.


</doc>
<doc id="16132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16132" title="Rhubarb">
Rhubarb

Rhubarb is a kind of plant. It is known for its color. It is baked in pie sometimes. It tastes good with sugar and potato pancakes. The leaves are no good. Eating rhubarb raw is harmful to the body and must always be cooked for safe consumption.


</doc>
<doc id="16133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16133" title="Monkey">
Monkey

Monkeys are mammals that are in a group called primates. Apes are not monkeys. They are clever, social animals who are famous for climbing trees easily. Almost every monkey has a tail, even if it is very short.

There are many different kinds of monkeys. Some monkeys live in trees, others live on the ground. Different primate families eat fruit, leaves, insects, flowers, small mammals, reptiles, amphibians, crabs or even other monkeys. They can be kept as pets but due to their high intelligence and advanced emotional needs are not suggested. Monkeys can live in forests, savannahs, deserts and even in snowy mountains, but they are most commonly found in rainforests, except for Australia and New Guinea. 

A group of monkeys is called a "troop" of monkeys or a "tribe" of monkeys.

Some monkeys are very small, about 15 cm long and 120 g in weight, while other monkeys can be very big, about 1 meter long and 35 kg in weight.

There are two groups of monkeys that live in different places: the "New World Monkeys" in South America and the "Old World Monkeys" from Africa and Asia. New World Monkeys are often smaller than Old World Monkeys. Monkeys have long arms and legs to help them swing from trees. Some monkeys' tails can wrap tightly around branches, almost like a "fifth limb". Most monkeys are arboreal (live in the trees), but some live on the ground.

The smallest known monkey is the Pygmy Marmoset. It is about 14-16cm in size (without the tail). It weighs about 120 grams. It lives in the treetops of rainforests in Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador. The largest known monkey is the Mandrill. It can grow to about 1 m in size. Adults weigh up to 35 kg.

The word "monkey" might have come from a popular German story, "Roman de Renart" ("Reynard the Fox"). In there, the name of the son of Martin the Ape is "Moneke".

In Africa, monkeys can be sold as "bushmeat" (meat of wild animals). Monkey brains are eaten in some parts of Africa, South Asia, and China. 




</doc>
<doc id="16146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16146" title="Civilization">
Civilization

Civilization, or civilisation comes from the Latin word "civis", meaning someone who lives in a town. When people are called civilised they have organised into large well-organized groups like towns, not in small tribes or family groups. Such a large well organized group is called a civilisation, and people in the same civilization not only work together in government, warfare and education, but also often share traditions such as language, arts, architecture. 

As as example of a large civilization, the Roman Empire was governed from Rome. This empire once stretched from the Scottish borders to North Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean. They had their own language, Latin, which became the preferred method of communication among educated people until long after their civilization had vanished. Today lawyers and politicians, doctors and scientists, scholars and others still use Latin in the course of their everyday work, even though the Roman civilization died out more than 1,500 years ago. It is said that William Shakespeare excelled at Latin. Latin is still taught in some schools. We still admire and copy Roman architecture, use Roman numerals to count certain things, use the names of Roman gods to mark the days and months of our calendars, name the constellations in the sky by the same names that the Romans used and we model our Western political constitutions and structures on Roman models (Senate, Governor, election, tribunal, justice, vote, census, even the word Constitution, are all Latin words, their meaning unchanged in thousands of years). 

The Roman civilization lasted almost 1000 years, but the Ancient Egyptian civilization was far older and lasted far longer. The Romans and Egyptians fought each other in battle and two of their mightiest leaders, the Roman Anthony and the Egyptian Cleopatra formed an alliance that might have united their two empires.

1. An advanced state of intellectual, cultural, and material development in human society, marked by progress in the arts and sciences, an advanced state of moral conduct, the extensive use of record-keeping, including writing, and the appearance of complex political and social institutions.

2. The type of culture and society developed by a particular nation or region or in a particular epoch: Maya civilization; the civilization of ancient Rome.

3. The act or process of civilizing or reaching a civilized state.

4. Cultural or intellectual refinement; good taste.

5. Modern society with its conveniences: "We returned to civilization after camping in the mountains".


</doc>
<doc id="16150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16150" title="Enlightenment (Buddhism)">
Enlightenment (Buddhism)

In Buddhism, enlightenment is when a Buddhist discovers the truth about life. Bodhi means Enlightenment. You can become Enlightened by following the Middle Way. 
Buddhists generally achieve this using meditation (or deep thought), whilst deeply concentrating and "clearing" their minds. 

Siddhartha Gautama left the palace on the day his son was born and went to seek the Shramana teachers for guidance. On his way, he saw a poor man, an old man, a corpse and finally a sadu (holy man). This made the Buddha believe that material goods mean little since we all die eventually and although this is sad he felt almost nothing he was still content.

His birth was said to be miracle. His mother, the queen, was walking through the woods and two trees bent down for her to hold onto. The birth was quick and painless. 

The Buddha touched His goal of enlightenment after meditating for forty days under his bodhi tree. This idea came to him after the ascetic ways of the Shramana teachers had failed to work for him and he remembered sitting under a tree as a child. During this time he learned of his past lives and saw the past lives of other people. Siddhartha Gautama became enlightened at the age of 35 and was called the Buddha (the enlightened one).

During his enlightenment he pointed towards the earth as a witness of his enlightenment, he was offered to be free from nirvana but his decision was to stay on earth and teach others about the path to enlightenment. He taught his first sermon in the deer park at Sarnath. After his teachings, he died at the age of 80. Enlightenment= A goal in the mind after being focused on meditation...

Enlightenment comes from within when you start believing about the existence and try to conceptualize all the signs given by the Almighty.
This may be breaking the vicious cycle that you have been struck into from the past so many years. It is truly very difficult, almost impossible to do so. But unless and until you are not ready to loose yourself there is nothing that you will find as NEW in your life or the next life. 

The mantra is to lose yourself, lend your ears to the music that is being played into your soul, start enjoying and celebrating the festival of LIFE which is priceless and will never come again.

Dinesh Vohra

</doc>
<doc id="16155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16155" title="Mail">
Mail

Mail is part of the postal system. The postal system is a system where written documents and small packages are taken (delivered) to places around the world. Anything sent through the postal system is called mail or post.

A postal service can be private or public. Governments often make rules about private postal delivery systems. Since the early 19th century, national postal systems have mostly been controlled entirely by the governments. The governments make people pay a fee to send something. This fee is usually in the form of stamps. Some governments only let private postal services deliver parcel (non-mail) packages.

Postal systems often do things other than sending letters. In some countries, the postal system is also in charge of telephone and telegraph systems. The postal systems in other countries can help people apply for government papers such as passports and driver's licenses. Many places the post offices also work like banks. This is so that people can take out money or pay bills where they live, instead of travelling to a big bank in the nearest town.



</doc>
<doc id="16156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16156" title="Righteous Brothers">
Righteous Brothers

The Righteous Brothers were a pop group consisting of two men named Bill Medley and Bobby Hatfield. They formed in California in 1962. Some of their hits include "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'" and "Unchained Melody".


</doc>
<doc id="16157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16157" title="Gene Pitney">
Gene Pitney

Gene Francis Alan Pitney (17 February 1940 – 5 April 2006) was an American pop singer and songwriter. He was born in Hartford, Connecticut. Some of his most well-known songs are "Town Without Pity", "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance" and "Twenty Four Hours From Tulsa". He died in 2006 while on tour in the UK.


</doc>
<doc id="16166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16166" title="Federal Bureau of Investigation">
Federal Bureau of Investigation

The Federal Bureau of Investigation or FBI is the national police of the United States. They work on crimes that are more important or complicated for the local police to handle. The FBI was established in 1908.

Although the FBI work worldwide, their headquarters is in Washington DC. They have 56 main offices in cities throughout the USA.

The FBI's mission is to protect the USA and maintain justice. They do this in many ways.




</doc>
<doc id="16167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16167" title="1596">
1596

1596 was a year in the 16th century. It was a leap year. 





</doc>
<doc id="16170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16170" title="Nothofagus">
Nothofagus

Nothofagus is a kind of plant, also called southern beech. It is a tree which can reach 35 m tall. "Nothofagus" is found in South America, New Zealand, Australia and New Guinea.
There are 34 species, considering pollen morphology four sections are recognized, i.e. Brassospora, Fuscospora, Lophozonia, and Nothofagus.



</doc>
<doc id="16171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16171" title="Template:·Users by language (grc-1)">
Template:·Users by language (grc-1)


</doc>
<doc id="16172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16172" title="Template:User is-1">
Template:User is-1


</doc>
<doc id="16173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16173" title="Template:Polytonic">
Template:Polytonic


</doc>
<doc id="16174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16174" title="Ancient Greek language">
Ancient Greek language

Ancient Greek was the language spoken by the people of Ancient Greece from the 9th to 4th century B.C. Ancient Greek and Latin are the most important ancient languages (languages which are no longer spoken) for speakers of English today. This is because a very large number of English words come from Greek and Latin.

The Greek language had many different dialects, but the “Attic Greek” which was spoken by the people of Athens is thought to be the purest of the forms. Because the Greeks became very powerful in the countries around the Mediterranean Sea their language spread very quickly. Alexander the Great even took it into Asia. Later, in the Roman world, children were taught Greek as a second language in the same way that many non-English speakers today learn English as their second language.

The great poems of the Ancient Greek poets like Homer were written in Greek. The poems of the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey" tell exciting stories about warfare, travel and the Greek gods. In the 5th century B.C., some great plays were written by Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides. This was the "Golden Age" of Ancient Greece, the so-called "Hellenistic" period. These works of Ancient Greek literature inspired people for centuries and are still read today.

All languages change with time, and Greek has changed a lot since 25 centuries ago. Modern Greek is often said to have started in the year 453 A.D.

Unlike Latin, the Ancient Greek language is not considered a separate language from Modern Greek language, but a different period in the history of the language up to the present day.



</doc>
<doc id="16178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16178" title="Category:1842">
Category:1842


</doc>
<doc id="16190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16190" title="Autobahn">
Autobahn

Autobahn (engl. "motorway") is the name for freeways (large streets) in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. Those in Germany are famous because in many parts of the roads, there are no speed limits and drivers can drive as fast as they want to.

Usually an autobahn consists of two lanes in each direction. Sometimes there may be more than two lanes for one direction (or an additional lane for stuck cars).

All drivers are supposed to drive on the outer-most right lane unless they overtake other cars or trucks.

Many autobahns in Germany have no speed limit. There is only a speed recommendation of per hour. However, drivers going faster than 130km/h can be made responsible for an accident that they are involved in. The German traffic law says that it is only permitted to drive as fast as the track conditions allow.

An emergency phone is located at a German autobahn every . Junctions between two autobahns are called "Dreieck" (Triangle), if one autobahn ends there or "Kreuz" (Cross). Junctions with normal roads are called "Anschlussstelle". All junctions of an autobahn are numbered sequentially.

Driving on a German autobahn is free for cars and bikes. Trucks (12,5 tons and above) do have to pay a toll of about a twelve cents (-,12€) per kilometre.

On autobahns in Austria there is a general speeding limit of 130km/h. However there were some test sections where 160km/h was allowed before April 2007. It is legal to drive with a car, truck, motorbike... if you can drive with it more than 60km/h.

Austrian autobahns are not free of charge. Car drivers have to buy a "vignette" (which permits driving on the autobahn for a few days or months or even a year). Trucks do have to pay a distance-dependent toll (as in Germany). On some sections you have to pay toll and need no "vignette", like big tunnels and other expensive buildings in the mountains.

Junctions among Austrian autobahns are called "Knoten" (instead of "Kreuz") and there is often a speeding limit of 100km/h.

On the "Wiener Süd-Ost Tangente" (engl.: Vienna South-East Bypass) are about 200,000 cars every day. There is the most traffic in Austria and it is an important autobahn of the capital city Vienna.

Autobahns in Switzerland have a speed limit of 120km/h. Until 1997 they were called "Nationalstrassen" (and labeled with an "N" instead of "A"). As in Austria, car drivers have to buy a "vignette" which is always valid for one year (calendar year). Junctions between autobahns in Switzerland are called "Verzweigung".


</doc>
<doc id="16191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191" title="Arnold Schoenberg">
Arnold Schoenberg

Arnold Franz Walter Schoenberg (originally written Schönberg) (September 13, 1874 – July 13, 1951) was an Austrian born composer. He was known for his twelve-tone system of writing music.

Schoenberg came from a strict Jewish family who had moved to Austria from Hungary. They were quite poor and Schoenberg taught himself about music. When he was grown up he had to do a lot of teaching to try and earn enough money to live. In later life he went to live in the United States. It took a long time before he was recognized world-wide as a great composer. His two most famous pupils were Alban Berg (1885-1935) and Anton Webern (1883-1945). He taught them how to write twelve-tone music and they became famous composers.

When Arnold Schoenberg was a young man he was living in the late 19th century. In art and music the 19th century is often called the age of Romanticism. If you look at the way composers wrote music at this time you will find that their compositions became more and more chromatic. This means that more and more sharps and flats were used during the piece, and the music went from one key to another (modulated) very quickly. Richard Wagner wrote very chromatic music, especially in his opera "Tristan and Isolde".

Schoenberg’s early works are mostly Late Romantic. His piece "Verklärte Nacht" (which can be played by six string instruments or by a whole orchestra) has very beautiful harmonies which go quickly from one key to another. Gradually Schoenberg’s music changed. It became so chromatic that it was no longer in any key at all. Music like this (called “atonal”) is much harder to understand. His "Five Orchestral Pieces" were played by the conductor Sir Henry Wood at a Promenade Concert in 1912. The audience did not like it at first and took some time to get used to the sound.

In 1923 Schoenberg developed the twelve-tone system for which he is famous. This is music which is based on a particular row of notes. Twelve-tone music is atonal because there is no feeling of being in any key, because of the equal use of every pitch.


</doc>
<doc id="16193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16193" title="Slovak koruna">
Slovak koruna

The Slovak Crown or Slovak Koruna (in Slovak, Slovenská koruna, "koruna" means crown) has been the currency used in Slovakia since February 8, 1993. It replaced the Czechoslovak Crown. Slovak koruna should not be mistaken with the Slovak koruna during the World War II (Slovak: Koruna slovenská, short Ks, notice word order)

The ISO 4217 code for the Slovak Koruna is SKK. The symbol is Sk. One Koruna is equal to 100 hellers (written shortly as "hal.", in Slovak singular: halier). The symbol is put after the amount. 

Slovak koruna exists in these values: 50 h, 1 Sk, 2 Sk, 5 Sk, 10 Sk, 20 Sk, 50 Sk, 100 Sk, 200 Sk, 500 Sk, 1000 Sk and 5000 Sk. 10 h and 20 h are not used since 31 December 2003.

The central rate of Slovak koruna against Euro was 35.4424 SKK as of 19 March 2007. Slovakia will use Euro instead of koruna from 1 January 2009.

Slovakia is using Euro now, so the Slovak koruna is not the valid currency any more.



</doc>
<doc id="16195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16195" title="War of the Roses">
War of the Roses

War of the Roses may refer to:


Ever since that war took place, there have been rivalries between the two sides in sporting events, especially rugby and cricket.



</doc>
<doc id="16201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16201" title="Category:Cities in Kenya">
Category:Cities in Kenya

Cities in Kenya.


</doc>
<doc id="16202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16202" title="Category:Cities in Estonia">
Category:Cities in Estonia

Cities in Estonia.


</doc>
<doc id="16205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16205" title="Anglican">
Anglican

The Anglican Church is the Church of England and its overseas offshoots. Anglicanism is a Protestant form of Christianity. It is sometimes seen as being the middle way, between Roman Catholicism and extreme Protestantism. This is because, in the English Reformation, the English Church kept the early Catholic ministry of bishops, priests, and deacons. The critical point which led to the Anglican Church was the outright rejection of the Pope, and so of the Catholic Church as an organisation.

The main worship of Anglicans includes prayer, Bible reading, singing, preaching. Also, the sharing of the bread and wine which represents the body and blood of Jesus Christ in a ceremony called Holy Communion. 

Anglican beliefs range from the bread and wine becoming the actual Body and Blood of Christ in the course of worship, to the idea of these two being shared at Holy Communion only as a memorial of the life that Jesus Christ gave for all humanity on the Cross. The first ('High Church') is in the minority. It is similar to the belief of Roman Catholicism and Orthodoxy. The second (the majority 'Low Church') is like the belief of most Protestants. It is fundamentally a Protestant church because the Bible is the source of authority, not the Pope.

The name Anglican for this Church comes from the Latin word for English because the Church started in England. In the British Isles, Anglican has been the official or State religion in all parts at one time or another. Anglican Church leaders, and the State, worked together in what is called the alliance of Throne and Altar or Church and State. Together, they tried to make the Anglican denomination as broad and welcoming as possible to a wide range of Christian believers. 

They did this to try to get as many citizens as they could to worship in the official church. 

In the British Isles, and early British colonies, this was done to try to defeat both the followers of the Roman Catholic Church and all the kinds of Protestants too by including their best ideas, traditions, and practices in the Anglican Church. Now, the only place in the United Kingdom where Anglicanism is still the official religion is England, where the monarch, Queen Elizabeth II is the "Supreme Governor on Earth" of the Church of England. The effective government of the Church is by the Archbishop of Canterbury, and the legal Church Parliament known as the General Synod.

In the rest of the world, Anglicanism was spread by overseas colonisation, settlement, and missionary work. It functions there as an ordinary denomination of Christianity without special status. Anglicans around the world join together in a group of national churches in countries where there are Anglican Churches to make the world-wide Anglican Communion. There are more than 80 million Anglicans in the world today. Most live in Africa and Asia and are not of British ethnic heritage anymore.

The Anglican Communion is struggling today with questions about the role of women and gay people in the Church. There is a great chance that the Anglican Communion will not survive the stress of these serious issues, and will split into liberal and conservative groups. Already, there are Anglicans who have broken from the main Churches to form their own separate groups of believers. Some use the term Anglican combined with the word Catholic, Christian, Reformed, or Episcopal. 

At the same time, leaders from the Anglican Communion hold talks with the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches to try to work toward Christian unity. At times, there has been some progress. Also, the Anglican and Lutheran Churches have agreed to a high level of shared beliefs, leadership, and practices called intercommunion.


</doc>
<doc id="16213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16213" title="Full Metal Jacket">
Full Metal Jacket

Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 movie directed by Stanley Kubrick, based on the Gustav Hasford book "The Short-Timers". The name of the movie comes from the full-metal jacketed bullets used in the military. The movie follows soldiers that are drafted to fight in the Vietnam War. The story follows the characters from their time in recruit training to the end of the war. 



</doc>
<doc id="16226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16226" title="Cambridgeshire">
Cambridgeshire

Cambridgeshire is a county in England. The counties around Cambridgeshire are Lincolnshire to the north, Norfolk to the northeast, Suffolk to the east, Essex and Hertfordshire to the south, and Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire to the west. The county town is Cambridge.


</doc>
<doc id="16227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16227" title="1468">
1468



</doc>
<doc id="16228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16228" title="English Channel">
English Channel

The English Channel is a body of water that separates the island of Great Britain from the rest of Europe. People who live in the UK and want to visit Europe, or people from Europe who want to visit the UK, can take a ferry across or ride a train under the channel in a special tunnel called the Channel Tunnel (nicknamed the "Chunnel"). Both the ferries and trains carry cars. It is 563 km long, 246 km wide, and its narrowest part (34 km) is the Strait of Dover. On a clear day, it is possible to see the cliffs of Dover from Calais on the French side.

In 1875, Matthew Webb became the first known person to swim the English Channel, crossing it in just under 22 hours. The first woman to do this was Gertrude Ederle. In 2004, over 600 people were recorded making the crossing. The fastest time was achieved by Bulgarian swimmer Peter Stoychev in 2007, who managed it in 7 hours.

In France, it is known as "La manche" (The Sleeve).


</doc>
<doc id="16252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16252" title="Category:1886 deaths">
Category:1886 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16253" title="Category:1830 births">
Category:1830 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1830.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16254" title="Category:1830">
Category:1830


</doc>
<doc id="16256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16256" title="Upminster">
Upminster

Upminster is a place in the east London Borough of Havering, England. It is the eastern end of the London Underground system, on the District line.


</doc>
<doc id="16258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16258" title="Colin Baker">
Colin Baker

Colin Baker (born June 8, 1943) is an English actor. He is most famous as the Sixth Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1984 to 1986. He has no relation to Tom Baker, who played the fourth incarnation of the Doctor.


</doc>
<doc id="16259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16259" title="Boxing">
Boxing

Boxing is one of the world's oldest combat sports. It is usually held in a ring and two boxers (people who participate in the sport) wear special gloves and try to hit one another.

There are a few different ways to win in boxing. One is by a way of a knockout, which is when a fighter is knocked to the ground and cannot get back up within ten seconds. Another way is by a technical knockout, which is when the fighter can not continue fighting or the referee stops the fight. Another possibility is winning on points, which a boxer gets by outboxing his or her opponent by hitting the opponent more often, harder, and more accurately. There are also draws in boxing. A referee can announce a technical draw due to an accidental cut or an accidental wound like a headbutt. Generally, it is considered a "no contest" (NC). However, from the second round, or four in some places, if the score cards for both fighters are equal, the fight could be called a draw. Boxing is very popular around the world.




</doc>
<doc id="16260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16260" title="1900s">
1900s

The 1900s was the decade that started on January 1, 1900, and ended on December 31, 1909. It was the decade which spanned the 19th century and the 20th century.





</doc>
<doc id="16261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16261" title="Tux Racer">
Tux Racer

Tux Racer is a video game made by Sunspire Studios where the player moves Tux, the Linux Penguin . In the game, Tux goes down a hill on his belly and collects fish. There are many things that slow Tux down. There are also things that may be hard for Tux to get past.


The developers of Tux Racer have long abandoned making and programing the game. But some programmers took the source code and they call their new version Extreme Tux Racer, it is much newer and has many improvements over the old Tux Racer.



</doc>
<doc id="16264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16264" title="Northwest Territories">
Northwest Territories

The Northwest Territories is a territory in northern Canada. 42,944 people lived there as of January 1, 2005. It is 1,171,918 square kilometers.

The capital of the Northwest Territories is Yellowknife. Yellowknife was the capital since 1967. The Northwest Territories have many geographical features, like the Great Bear Lake, the Mackenzie River and Nahanni River, which is a national park and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

The Northwest Territories entered the Canadian Confederation in 1870. The Hudson's Bay Company gave the land to the Dominion of Canada. The Northwest Territories have one person in the House of Commons and the Canadian Senate. A lot of parts of the Northwest Territories were given to other provinces, including British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, Ontario, and Quebec. In 1999, the eastern part of the Northwest Territories became the territory of Nunavut.



</doc>
<doc id="16267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16267" title="Straight">
Straight

The word straight means something that goes in one direction without turns, bends, or curves. 

Lines can bend in a curve. If lines do not bend, they are straight. For example, the edge of a circle is not straight. The edge of a circle bends in a curve. 

Light bends in a curve in air and water, but travels in a straight line away from the earth or other bodies in outer space where there is no air.

In slang, just as the word gay means homosexual, the word straight means heterosexual.



</doc>
<doc id="16270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16270" title="SS Richard Montgomery">
SS Richard Montgomery

The SS Richard Montgomery was an American ship built during World War II. "Montgomery" was wrecked off the coast of Kent in 1944 with around 1,500 tons of explosives on board, which continue to be a hazard to the area

"Montgomery" sank in the Thames estuary in August 1944. It was loaded with 15,000 tons of explosive munitions. The Admiralty decided to leave the wreck and its dangerous cargo undisturbed. The wreck lies just a few hundred yards offshore between an oil refinery and the several towns. Southend on Sea is just a couple of miles away on the other side of the Thames estuary. Rumours about the ship and its cargo have circulated in these towns ever since. Denials have been issued by ministers in the House of Commons in response to MPs questions about the presence on board of biological, chemical and gas warheads. Nevertheless, rumours persist that the real reason the wreck was not made safe was because of the existence of ‘dirty weapons’ on board.



</doc>
<doc id="16275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16275" title="Inno e Marcia Pontificale">
Inno e Marcia Pontificale

Hymn and Pontifical March (Inno e Marcia Pontificale) is the national anthem of the Vatican City. It was adopted in 1950.

O Roma felix - O Roma nobilis.<br>
Sedes es Petri, qui Romae effudit sanguinem,<br>
Petri, cui claves datae sunt regni caelorum.<br>
Pontifex, Tu successor es Petri;<br>
Pontifex, Tu magister es tuos confirmas fratres;<br>
Pontifex, Tu qui Servus servorum Dei,<br>
hominumque piscator, pastor es gregis,<br>
ligans caelum et terram.<br>
Pontifex, Tu Christi es vicarius super terram,<br>
rupes inter fluctus, Tu es pharus in tenebris;<br>
Tu pacis es vindex, Tu es unitatis custos,<br>
vigil libertatis defensor; in Te potestas.<br>
Tu Pontifex, firma es petra, et super petram hanc<br>
aedificata est Ecclesia Dei.<br>
O felix Roma - O Roma nobilis.<br>

[Hymn]<br>
O Rome immortal, city of martyrs and saints, <br>
O immortal Rome, accept our praises. <br>
Glory in the heavens to God our Lord <br>
And peace to men who love Christ! <br>

To you we come, angelic Pastor,<br>
In you we see the gentle Redeemer.<br>
You are the holy heir of our Faith,<br>
You are the comfort and the refuge of<br>
Those who believe and fight.<br>

Force and terror will not prevail,<br>
But truth and love will reign.<br>

[Pontifical March]<br>
Hail, O Rome,<br>
Eternal adobe of memories;<br>
A thousand palms and a thousand altars<br>
Sing your praises.<br>

O city of the Apostles,<br>
Mother and guide of the elect,<br>
Light of the nations,<br>
And hope of the world!<br>

Hail, O Rome!<br>
Your light will never fade;<br>
The splendour of your beauty<br>
Disperses hatred and shame.<br>

O city of the Apostles,<br>
Mother and guide of the elect,<br>
Light of the nations,<br>
And hope of the world!<br>


</doc>
<doc id="16279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279" title="Category:219">
Category:219


</doc>
<doc id="16280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16280" title="Category:210s deaths">
Category:210s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 210s, starting from the year 210 to the year 219.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16281" title="Category:210s">
Category:210s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 210s which begins in the year 210 and ends in the year 219.


</doc>
<doc id="16282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16282" title="Category:3rd century deaths">
Category:3rd century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 3rd century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16283" title="Category:323">
Category:323


</doc>
<doc id="16284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16284" title="Category:320s">
Category:320s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 320s which begins in the year 320 and ends in the year 329.


</doc>
<doc id="16285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285" title="Category:160">
Category:160


</doc>
<doc id="16286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16286" title="Category:160s births">
Category:160s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 160s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16287" title="Category:2nd century births">
Category:2nd century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 2nd century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16288" title="Category:160s">
Category:160s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 160s which begins in the year 160 and ends in the year 169.


</doc>
<doc id="16289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16289" title="Category:2nd century">
Category:2nd century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 2nd century, which began in the year 101 and ended in the year 200.

Note that the year 200 is included in in the 3rd century but is actually part of the 2nd century.


</doc>
<doc id="16290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16290" title="Category:165">
Category:165


</doc>
<doc id="16291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16291" title="Category:160s deaths">
Category:160s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 160s, starting from the year 160 to the year 169.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16292" title="Category:2nd century deaths">
Category:2nd century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 2nd century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16295" title="Northern Mariana Islands">
Northern Mariana Islands

The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean that are a political division controlled by the United States. Its capital is Saipan.


</doc>
<doc id="16296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16296" title="1890s">
1890s




</doc>
<doc id="16297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16297" title="Benjamin Harrison">
Benjamin Harrison

Benjamin Harrison (August 20, 1833–March 13, 1901) was the 23rd President of the United States (1889-1893).
He was the Grandson of William Henry Harrison. His home was Indianapolis, Indiana. He was a member of the Republican party. He was elected to the White House in 1888, beating Grover Cleveland, the 22nd President of the United States. 

After Benjamin Harrison served one full four-year term as President, Cleveland ran again and, this time, beat Harrison. Benjamin Harrison's first wife was Carrie Harrison. After Carrie Harrison died, his second wife was Mary Dimmick Harrison.
Besides being President, Benjamin Harrison was a successful lawyer. He argued many cases before the United States Supreme Court.

Benjamin Harrison as president wanted to increase tariffs (a tax on goods that come into the country) for two reasons:
to make more of their own things instead of buying them from foreign countries.

Harrison spent the money received from the tariffs to give money to injured American Civil War veterans.

Harrison was the first president to have a billion dollar budget for the government. People criticized him for that.

He also signed the Sherman Anti-Trust Act which gave the U.S. government the power to regulate big businesses. 

Harrison did not use that power much.



</doc>
<doc id="16298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16298" title="Pablo Picasso">
Pablo Picasso

Pablo Ruiz Picasso (25 October 1881 in Málaga, Spain – 8 April 1973) was a Spanish painter and sculptor. He is considered one of the greatest artists of the 20th century. His full name is "Pablo Diego José Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno María de los Remedios Cipriano de la Santísima Trinidad Clito Ruiz y Picasso". He is best known as the co-founder of cubism. Cubism is when the artist breaks up objects and re-assembles them in abstract and geometric form. Pablo Picasso created over 20,000 pictures.

Picasso could draw and paint when he was very young. His first word was "lápiz", the Spanish word for "pencil".

Perhaps his most famous painting is Guernica which shows the horrors of war after the bombing of the town of Guernica.

He was 90 years old when a number of his works were shown in an exhibition at the Louvre in Paris. He was the first living artist to have an exhibition at the Louvre.

Picasso had four children with three women. He died of heart failure on 8 April 1973.

Pablo Picasso was born as son of the painter and teacher José Ruiz Blasco and his wife María Picasso López. His birthplace was Málaga in Spain. In his first years, until 1898, he used both, the name of his father and his mother to sign pictures. Since around 1901, he only used his mother's one. At the age of eight, Picasso created his first oil painting called "The Picador". In 1891, Pablo moved with his family to Northern Spain, where his father taught at the "Instituto da Guarda". One year later, Pablo studied at this institute. Pablo's father was his teacher at this time. In 1896, he started to attend the art school in Barcelona after passing the entrance examination.<ref name="picasso-de/"></ref> One year later in 1897, Picasso started to study at the "Academia San Fernando" in Madrid. In 1898. he left the academy and went to a rest to Horta de Ebro. In 1900, he published his first illustrations in a newspaper in Barcelona. This had over 50 portraits.
Picasso also made in 1900 his first travel to Paris. There, he lived with Max Jacob, a poet and journalist. When Max was working during the day, Pablo slept and when Max slept in the night, Pablo worked. Picasso had to burn his paintings to keep himself warm. "Lovers in the Street" and "Moulin de la Galette" are examples of his work in Paris. Both pictures were painted in 1900.

He went back to Madrid in 1901. There, he worked for a newspaper called "Arte Joven". He was responsible for the illustration. He shortened his signature in this time to "Picasso" only rather than "Pablo Ruiz y Picasso". At the same time, his so called "Blue Period" started. Picasso made three trips to Paris. In 1904, he settled there. The "Blue Period" ended in 1904. The "The Soup" and "Crouching Woman" are two examples of paintings from Picasso. Both were painted in 1903. 

In 1905, Picasso made a trip to Holland. In the same year, Pablo's "Rosa Period" started. During this period, Picasso mostly painted circus motives. "Girl Balancing on a Ball" and "The Actor" are two paintings from this time. Both were painted in 1905 at the beginning of the Rosa Period. The end of the period is dated to 1907.

The next years in Picasso's life are called "Cubism". The start of this period is dated to the year 1909 and ended around 1912. This period was inspired by the French painter Paul Cezanne. There period is called "Cubism" because he often painted cubes. During this time, Pablo Picasso preferred to paint musical instruments and still-life objects. He also painted his friends.

Picasso had his first exhibition in the United States in 1911. One year later in 1912, he had his first exhibition in Great Britain. Pablo's father died in May 1913.

From 1912 to 1919 was Picasso's so called "Synthetic Cubism Period". During this time, he started to use collages in his paintings. His works from this time are called "papiers collés". He has spent the his time during the First World War in Rome. In 1914, Picasso spent the whole summer in Avignon. In 1915, he started to paint realistic again. At the end of the same year, his wife Eva died. During the World War, he also worked as a designer for Sergey Diaghilev.

In 1917, Picasso met Olga Koklova, a Russian dancer. In the same year, he painted several realistic portraits of her and their friends. One year later, he married her. The last summer of the wartime, Picasso and his wife spent in Barcelona and Biarritz.

In 1921, Picasso's son Paul was born. Due to this occasion, he painted several paintings with his wife and his son on it. Paul was Picasso's only legitimate son. In 1925, he took part in the first Surrealist exhibition in Paris. Between 1924 and 1926, Picasso preferred to paint abstract still lifes. in 1927, he got known to Marie-Thérèse Walter. She became his model and mistress. In 1928, he started a new period. He began to make sculptural works. In 1931, he left his wife and moved with his mistress to Boisgeloup. There they lived in a country home. There, Picasso had a room for his sculptures only. Since 1932, he used Marie-Thérèse as model. During a travel in Spain, he started to use the bullfight as a new topic of his paintings. In 1935, Picasso's daughter, Maïa, was born. At this time, he got divorced from his wife because of the birth of Maïa. In 1936, Picasso got a job as director of the Prado-Museum in Madrid. During this time, the Spanish Civil War started. German bombs fall on Guernica in Spain on 26 April 1937. Picasso used this impact to paint one of his most famous paintings, Guernica. This painting was completed in about 2 months. It was first shown in the Spanish Pavilion in Paris in 1937.

In 1938, Picasso's mother died. After the Second World War started on 1 September 1939, Picasso returned to Paris. Around 1943, he got known to the painter Françoise Gilot. She bore to him one son and one daughter. In 1941, he wrote his first play "Le désir attrapé par la queue" (English: "Desire Caught by the Tail"). It was first shown in 1944. Also in 1944, Picasso joined the communist Party. Picasso spend almost the full war time in Paris.



</doc>
<doc id="16299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16299" title="1880s">
1880s




</doc>
<doc id="16302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16302" title="1881">
1881





</doc>
<doc id="16306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16306" title="Category:1833 births">
Category:1833 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1833.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16309" title="Category:1951 deaths">
Category:1951 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16316" title="Wake Island">
Wake Island

Wake Island is an atoll (a type of island) in the Pacific Ocean, near Hawaii. It is controlled by the United States Army and United States Air Force. It is an unorganized, unincorporated territory of the United States, part of the United States Minor Outlying Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="16317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16317" title="William McKinley">
William McKinley

William McKinley (January 29, 1843 – September 14, 1901) was the 25th President of the United States, from 1897 until his assassination in 1901. 

He began the era of imperialism for the United States by declaring war against Spain in Latin America because of the USS Maine sinking the public crying for war. He led the country through the Spanish-American War. During his term, he also supported higher tariffs (taxes on countries which trade with the US). During his term, the United States annexed Hawaii, Cuba, the Philippines, and Wake Island. Before he became President, he had been a congressman of Ohio.

McKinley was elected to a second term as president in 1900, but his second term did not last very long. He was shot by an anarchist named Leon Czolgosz on September 6, 1901, and died on September 14. Czolgosz claimed the President committed war crimes in the American Philippines war and was an enemy of the people. Czolgosz was executed in the electric chair. McKinley was the third American President to be assassinated. 

After McKinley's death, his vice-president Theodore Roosevelt became president.



</doc>
<doc id="16318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16318" title="Record producer">
Record producer

A record producer (or music producer) is a person who takes charge of a recording session, in the same kind of way that a movie director is in charge of filming movies. Record producers help musicians and recording artists to make singles and albums. The producer controls the recording sessions, coaches and guides the musicians and supervises the recording, mixing and mastering processes to make the music finalized. 



</doc>
<doc id="16321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16321" title="Gliwice">
Gliwice

Gliwice is a city in south Poland, in Silesia and along the Kłodnica River. According to a count in 2004, it has a population of 200,361 people.

In the late Middle Ages, around 1276, was the first known time that there was a reference to Gliwice in history. At first, it was ruled by Polish dukes, but later became a part of Bohemia in 1335. Later on, in 1526, it was conquered by Austria.

In the middle of the 18th century, Gliwice was taken from the Austrian ruling family and became a part of Prussia. However, in the unification, or coming together, of Germany in 1871, Gliwice became a part of the German empire.

In the 19th century, Gliwice became more developed and was home to many businesses, including one of the most famous theaters in Germany at the time.

In 1945, Gliwice passed into Polish rule.



</doc>
<doc id="16323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16323" title="First aid">
First aid

First aid is basic knowledge about injuries (body damage). It is used at accidents to help stop more serious harm from happening to an injured person until he receives medical treatment (help by doctors, nurses or ambulance paramedics). A person does not need a lot of equipment to give first aid. Because of this, it can be done just about anywhere.

Emergency medical dispatchers are trained in first aid so that if there is an emergency, they can give the caller some information on what to do until the ambulance arrives.

The goals of first aid – what you want to do – are called the ""Four P's"":

You need very good training to give first aid. Training is given by a very experienced (lots of knowledge) medical person, for example a doctor or a nurse. The level of training needed to be a first aid giver changes from country to country – for example, in the UK you can go on a 1-day course to become a first aid giver for anything, and a 4-day course for emergencies in a place of work.


</doc>
<doc id="16324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16324" title="1868">
1868



</doc>
<doc id="16325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16325" title="1814">
1814




</doc>
<doc id="16326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16326" title="1846">
1846

1846 was a year in the 19th century.



</doc>
<doc id="16327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16327" title="1705">
1705



</doc>
<doc id="16330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16330" title="Wausau, Wisconsin">
Wausau, Wisconsin

Wausau is a city in Marathon County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. It is the largest city in the county, and it is the county seat (where the government of the county works). According to the 2000 census (official count), 38,426 people lived in the city.

The Wisconsin River flows through the middle of the city.



</doc>
<doc id="16331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16331" title="1749">
1749



</doc>
<doc id="16333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16333" title="1852">
1852



</doc>
<doc id="16334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16334" title="701">
701

Centuries: 7th century - 8th century - 9th century

Decades: 650s 660s 670s 680s 690s - 700s - 710s 720s 730s 740s 750s

Years: 696 697 698 699 700 - 701 - 702 703 704 705 706



</doc>
<doc id="16335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16335" title="1158">
1158



</doc>
<doc id="16336" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16336" title="1201">
1201

1201 is a year in the 13th century.






</doc>
<doc id="16337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16337" title="Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation">
Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation

Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation is an animated movie from 1986, made by Canada's Nelvana Limited and distributed by Columbia Pictures. A follow-up to the first "Care Bears Movie", it tells of the beginnings of the Kingdom of Caring, and of the Care Bears' first Caring Mission, which takes place at a summer camp.

The film made $8.5 million in the United States during its original run at theatres. Only one more addition to the original Care Bear trilogy, "Adventure in Wonderland", would premiere on the big screen the next summer.

"A New Generation" is a prequel to the Nelvana that would be shown on the ABC network the following September.



In this second movie, the Great Wishing Star helps True Heart Bear and Noble Heart Horse start the Care Bear Family, as they try to save them and the Kingdom from a demon villain named Dark Heart. A camper named Christy makes a deal with the villain that makes her a success at anything she never did before, even cartwheels. In turn, he plans to forever capture the Care Bears and Care Bear Cousins, one at a time, inside a magic red bag, and them trap them all inside a secret location somewhere at camp.

Christy's two friends, Dawn and John, later join the Care Bear Family so that they can put an end to his evil doings.

An episode of DiC's Care Bears show also took place at a summer camp. But the storyline of "A New Generation" does not borrow from it.

This was one of only two Care Bear movies to have Harmony Bear as a character; the other one was 2005's "Big Wish Movie". Her second and final 1980s appearance was in the animated series' "Great Race" episode.




</doc>
<doc id="16339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16339" title="35">
35

35 is a year in the 1st century.






</doc>
<doc id="16340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16340" title="1025">
1025



</doc>
<doc id="16343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16343" title="Category:1846">
Category:1846


</doc>
<doc id="16346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16346" title="Category:1289">
Category:1289


</doc>
<doc id="16347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16347" title="Category:1280s">
Category:1280s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1280s which begins in the year 1280 and ends in the year 1289.


</doc>
<doc id="16349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16349" title="Category:1201">
Category:1201


</doc>
<doc id="16351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16351" title="Category:1158">
Category:1158


</doc>
<doc id="16354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16354" title="Category:1025">
Category:1025


</doc>
<doc id="16356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16356" title="Category:701">
Category:701


</doc>
<doc id="16357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16357" title="Category:700s">
Category:700s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 700s which begins in the year 700 and ends in the year 709.

Note that 700 is actually the last year of the 7th century; 701 is the actual first year of the 8th century.


</doc>
<doc id="16358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16358" title="Category:496 BC deaths">
Category:496 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16364" title="Category:1705">
Category:1705


</doc>
<doc id="16365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16365" title="Category:1843 births">
Category:1843 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1843.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16366" title="Category:1843">
Category:1843


</doc>
<doc id="16368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16368" title="Mikhail Bakunin">
Mikhail Bakunin

Mikhail Alexandrovich Bakunin (1814 – 1876) was a famous Russian anarchist. He is known as one of the early fathers of anarchism.

Mikhail was born in the Russian Empire to a family of Russian nobles, He spent his youth as a junior officer in the Russian army but resigned his commission in 1835. He went to school in Moscow to study philosophy and began to attend radical groups where he was greatly influenced by Alexander Herzen. Bakunin left Russia in 1842 for Dresden, and eventually Paris where he met George Sand, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and Karl Marx

He was eventually deported from France for speaking against Russia's oppression of Poland. In 1849 he was apprehended in Dresden for his participation in the Czech rebellion of 1848. He was turned over to Russia where he was imprisoned in Peter-Paul Fortress in Saint Petersburg. He remained there until 1857, when he was exiled to a work camp in Siberia




</doc>
<doc id="16377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16377" title="Internet Relay Chat">
Internet Relay Chat

Internet Relay Chat (IRC) is a chat system on the Internet. It allows people from around the world to have conversations together, but it can also be used for two people to chat privately.

The IRC chat rooms are also called "IRC channels". These channels are on IRC servers, which you can connect to by finding that server's information. This information will often begin with "irc," then a period, the name of the server, then another period, and finally, .com .org or .net. An example would be 'irc.[Servername].org'

There are small IRC servers (for example, OperaNet) to medium IRC servers (freenode and DalNet, which have about 30,000 users) and big IRC servers (for example, EFNet, UnderNet, which have over 100,000 users).

An IRC client is needed to use IRC. An IRC client is a computer program designed to work with IRC. There are many Java web browser based clients as well as application based. Popular stand-alone clients includes mIRC for Microsoft Windows and XChat for Linux and Microsoft Windows. The Opera web browser has an IRC client built into the browser. ChatZilla is a chat client which is a plugin to Mozilla Firefox.

IRC bots are computer programs used to help control and protect channels.

IRC channels usually begin with a hash (#). 

It was used by thousands of people to discuss the September 11 attacks on the day it happened.

IRC is an open protocol that uses TCP and optionally TLS. An IRC server can connect to other IRC servers to expand the IRC network. Users access IRC networks by connecting a client to a server. There are many client and server programs, such as mIRC and the Bahamut IRCd, respectively. Most IRC servers do not require users to log in, but a user will have to set a nickname before being connected.

IRC was originally a plain text protocol (although later extended), which on request was assigned port 194/TCP by IANA. However, most servers now run IRC on 6667/TCP and nearby port numbers (for example TCP ports 6112-6119) so that the server does not have to be run with root privileges.

This is a list of some programs that allow users to connect to IRC.



</doc>
<doc id="16380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16380" title="Political divisions of the United States">
Political divisions of the United States

This is a list of the political divisions of the United States. The United States is a country.
The country is divided in parts.
Most parts are states, but some parts of the country are not part of any state.


</doc>
<doc id="16382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16382" title="Spring">
Spring

Spring is the season after winter and before summer. The weather gets warmer because the ground is tilted towards the Sun. In many parts of the world plants grow and flowers bloom. Often people with hay fever suffer more. Many animals have their breeding seasons in spring.

At the start of spring, many people suffering from "Seasonal Affecting Disorder" often stop their symptoms.


</doc>
<doc id="16384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16384" title="1862">
1862




</doc>
<doc id="16385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16385" title="1801">
1801

1801 was the first year of the 19th century.




</doc>
<doc id="16386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16386" title="Muse">
Muse

The Muses are goddesses representing different arts and sciences in Greek mythology. They are the daughters of Mnemosyne and Zeus.

Most commonly the Muses are:

The word "muse" is also sometimes used for a person who inspires somebody else, or any other type of inspiring object. Muse can also be used to describe one's creative thoughts, such as poetry or a musical composition.


</doc>
<doc id="16388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16388" title="Yes (band)">
Yes (band)

Yes is a progressive rock group that formed in London, England in 1968 that is among the most influential progressive bands of all time. The band has received wide critical praise for their work. Their most well known songs include "Roundabout" and "I've Seen All Good People".


</doc>
<doc id="16389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16389" title="Mason Williams">
Mason Williams

Mason Williams (born August 24, 1938) is an easy listening guitarist. His most famous work is "Classical Gas".


</doc>
<doc id="16390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16390" title="Leaf">
Leaf

A leaf is an above-ground plant organ. Its main functions are photosynthesis and gas exchange. A leaf is often flat, so it absorbs the most light, and thin, so that the sunlight can get to the chloroplasts in the cells. Most leaves have stomata, which open and close. They regulate carbon dioxide, oxygen, and water vapour exchange with the atmosphere. 

Plants with leaves all year round are evergreens, and those that shed their leaves are deciduous. Deciduous trees and shrubs generally lose their leaves in autumn. Before this happens, the leaves change colour. The leaves will grow back in spring.

Leaves come in many shapes and sizes. The biggest undivided leaf is that of a giant edible aroid. This lives in marshy parts of the tropical rain forest of Borneo. One of its leaves can be ten feet across and have a surface area of over 30 square feet (~2.8 sq. metres).

A leaf is a plant organ and is made up of a collection of tissues in a regular organisation. The major tissue systems present are:

The epidermis is the outer layer of cells covering the leaf. It forms the boundary separating the plant's inner cells from the external world. 

The epidermis is covered with pores called "stomata", part of a stoma complex with a pore surrounded on each side by chloroplast-containing guard cells, and two to four subsidiary cells that lack chloroplasts. Opening and closing of the stoma complex regulates the exchange of gases and water vapor between the outside air and the interior of the leaf and plays an important role in allowing photosynthesis without letting the leaf dry out. 

Most of the interior of the leaf between the upper and lower layers of epidermis is a tissue called the mesophyll (Greek for "middle leaf"). This assimilation tissue is the main place photosynthesis takes place in the plant. The products of photosynthesis are sugars, which can be turned into other products in plant cells.

In ferns and most flowering plants, the mesophyll is divided into two layers: 

Leaves are normally green in color, which comes from chlorophyll found in plastids in the chlorenchyma cells. Plants that lack chlorophyll cannot photosynthesize.

The 'veins' are a dense network of xylem, which supply water for photosynthesis, and phloem, which remove the sugars produced by photosynthesis. Many leaves are covered in trichomes (small hairs) which have a wide range of structures and functions.

What leaves look like on the plant varies greatly. Closely related plants have the same kind of leaves because they have all descended from a common ancestor. The terms for describing leaf shape and pattern is shown, in illustrated form, at Wikibooks.


Different terms are usually used to describe leaf placement (phyllotaxis):


Leaves form a helix pattern centered around the stem, with (depending upon the species) the same angle of divergence. There is a regularity in these angles and they follow the numbers in a Fibonacci sequence. This tends to give the best chance for the leaves to catch light. 

Two basic forms of leaves can be described considering the way the blade (lamina) is divided. 

Some leaves have a petiole (leaf stem). Sessile leaves do not: the blade attaches directly to the stem. Sometimes the leaf blad surrounds the stem, giving the impression that the shoot grows through the leaf. 

In some "Acacia" species, such as the Koa Tree ("Acacia koa"), the petioles are expanded or broadened and function like leaf blades; these are called phyllodes. There may or may not be normal pinnate leaves at the tip of the phyllode.

A stipule, present on the leaves of many dicotyledons, is an appendage on each side at the base of the petiole resembling a small leaf. Stipules may be shed or not shed.

There are two subtypes of venation:

In the course of evolution, many species have leaves which are adapted to other functions.



</doc>
<doc id="16391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16391" title="War on Terrorism">
War on Terrorism

War on Terrorism or War on Terror is a campaign that the United States and some of its allies started to remove terrorist groups and to punish the states that sponsor terrorism. The former US-President Bush's argument was that the countries like North Korea, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, and Libya were a direct threat to America and its allies. The term was typically used with a particular focus on militant Islamists and al-Qaeda.

Administration of US President Barack Obama uses instead the term "Overseas Contingency Operation".


</doc>
<doc id="16396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16396" title="Category:1814 births">
Category:1814 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1814.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16399" title="Alkali metal">
Alkali metal

Alkali metals are the chemical elements in group one of the periodic system. They are silver-coloured when pure, soft and have only one electron in the outermost shell(as you can see, silver is one of the properties). They like to make reactions in which they give up this single electron and then have a charge of +1. They react strongly with water and because of this, they have to be stored in petrol. Alkali metals are the first group in the periodic table. They are never found in nature uncombined because they are unstable and they react fast to other elements. They bond well with all elements except the noble gases. When they are in air, they turn black. They have a one valence electron. 

The alkali metals are: Lithium (Li), Sodium (Na), Potassium (K), Rubidium (Rb), Cesium (Cs), and Francium (Fr). Lithium is the least reactive, and francium is the most reactive, although it is very rare.

Sodium is the most important alkali metal. One of the most important salts of sodium is sodium chloride (NaCl) (common 'table salt'). It also forms a hydroxide, sodium hydroxide (NaOH), which is commonly called 'caustic soda'. It is a very strong base.


</doc>
<doc id="16401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16401" title="Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl">
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a 2003 movie from Walt Disney Pictures. It is set in the early eighteenth century in the British Empire.

When the movie begins, a young girl called Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) is seen on a ship with her father, who is the major of a British colony in the Caribbean. Elizabeth catches sight of a boy in the water and the ship's crew save him. He is called Will Turner (Orlando Bloom). Elizabeth finds a chain around his neck with a golden medallion. This leads her to believe that Will is a pirate. She takes the medallion and keeps it.

Eight years later, Elizabeth has grown up, and her father is now governor of Port Royal. James Norrington, a commodore in the Royal Navy, proposes to her. She accepts, despite the fact that she in love with Will Turner, who is her father's blacksmith.

When James Norrington proposes to her, she faints (seemingly overcome by Norrington's proposal, but she actually fainted because her corset was too tight, and she could not breathe.) and falls off the ledge into the water below. Jack Sparrow sees her fall and rescues her. Despite this, James Norrington believes he should be arrested. Jack then threatens Elizabeth's life, and tries to escape. However, his escape fails due to Will Turner and he is taken to prison.

That night, the cursed crew of the "Black Pearl" attack Port Royal and kidnap Elizabeth. Jack Sparrow escapes his prison. He steals a ship to travel to Tortuga, a privateer port where he hopes to assemble a crew. Will Turner goes with him to rescue Elizabeth.

Elizabeth, on board the "Black Pearl", learns that the crew is under the curse of a chest of Aztec gold. They need the blood of each crew member to break the curse. However, Bootstrap Bill was killed, and they still need his blood, or the blood of his descendant. They believe Elizabeth is his descendant. They plan to spill her blood on the chest of Aztec gold in hopes to break the curse.




</doc>
<doc id="16407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16407" title="1866">
1866



</doc>
<doc id="16410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16410" title="Buenaventura Durruti">
Buenaventura Durruti

Buenaventura Durruti Dumange (1896-1936) was a Spanish anarchist leader. He was born in the town of León and died in Madrid when he was killed by a person using a gun. Durruti was a central figure of Spanish anarchism during the country's civil war of 1936-1939. He helped to fight against fascism.


</doc>
<doc id="16411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16411" title="Chester">
Chester

Chester is a city in the north-west of England. It is almost 2000 years old and was started by Romans. A person from Chester is called a Cestrian.

Chester lies on the river Dee, and is the county town of the county of Cheshire. It is near to the country Wales, and is home to almost 120,000 people. It is just south of Liverpool.

Near to Chester is Chester Zoo which is the biggest Zoo in the U.K.



</doc>
<doc id="16413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16413" title="The Secret of NIMH">
The Secret of NIMH

The Secret of NIMH is an animated movie directed by Don Bluth and released by his studio United Artists in 1982. The movie was based on Robert C. O'Brien's children's book "Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH". (The main character's name was changed to "Brisby", so that its audiences would not take its sound for the Frisbee toy.) Bluth began the idea of creating this movie after disagreement with Disney over "The Fox and the Hound". Before that he worked with the previous Disney animated movie which was also about mice: "The Rescuers". Later he made another animated movie about mice called "An American Tail", which came out in 1986.

A widow mouse named Mrs. Brisby does what she can to move her home, a stone block, before humans invade her place with a tractor. To do that, she must find help from a comic, love-seeking crow and a group of very smart rats from NIMH, the National Institute of Mental Health. In order to get the task done, she must see the leader of the rats, an old magician named Nicodemus, for a glowing red amulet that could rescue her home and her children (Martin, Teresa, Cynthia and a sick Timothy). She also learns, from him, a secret about his group that could forever change her life.



In spite of its critical success, this movie had a mediocre run at the box office, mostly because of a much bigger rival, Steven Spielberg's E. T. (Ironically, Spielberg saw the Bluth movie and asked its director to work on "An American Tail".)

Many fans and critics have called "NIMH" Don Bluth's most important work and magnum opus and masterpiece. Even though this movie was not a big box office success, "An American Tail" and 1997's "Anastasia" became his most successful works in later years.

In 1998, MGM released a direct-to-video sequel called "The Secret of NIMH 2: Timmy to the Rescue". In the sequel, Timothy goes to a place called Thorn Valley because he wants to become a hero like his father. His brother Martin has turned evil (although he does not want to), and Timothy must fight him in order to save the Rats of NIMH. At Thorn Valley Timothy learns from a young girl mouse that the mice who were thought to have been killed during the escape from NIMH are still alive, so he and the rats try to rescue them.

The sequel was hated by the fans of the first movie and the movie critics because of its clichéd and familiar storyline, and because many people thought that the magic of Don Bluth's dark and original "NIHM" was destoryed by the sequel, because MGM toned down the darkness of the story.



</doc>
<doc id="16416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16416" title="397">
397

Centuries: 3rd century - 4th century - 5th century

Decades: 340s 350s 360s 370s 380s - 390s - 400s 410s 420s 430s 440s

Years: 392 393 394 395 396 - 397 - 398 399 400 401 402


</doc>
<doc id="16418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16418" title="Category:Animated movies">
Category:Animated movies

This category lists animated movies with Simple English Wikipedia pages.


</doc>
<doc id="16422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16422" title="Category:397">
Category:397


</doc>
<doc id="16423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16423" title="Category:390s">
Category:390s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 390s which begins in the year 390 and ends in the year 399.


</doc>
<doc id="16427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16427" title="Nonmetal">
Nonmetal

Nonmetal or non-metal means there are no metal traces at all in the substance or chemical element. They can be gases or elements that do not look like metals. Examples of gases are: hydrogen, helium, oxygen, nitrogen, fluorine, neon, argon, krypton, or radon, just to name a few. An example of a solid that is a nonmetal is sulfur. It is yellow and not shiny at all. An example of a liquid that is a nonmetal is bromine. It is red. A non metal is also a great insulator. Usually gases or brittle solids are non-metals. Every element on the periodic table can be classified as metal or non-metal.


</doc>
<doc id="16433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16433" title="Holly Marie Combs">
Holly Marie Combs

Holly Marie Combs (born December 3, 1973 in San Diego, California) is an American actress most well known for working on the television series "Charmed". Before Charmed, she work in the TV series Picket Fences.


</doc>
<doc id="16434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16434" title="Bengal tiger">
Bengal tiger

The Bengal tiger ("Panthera tigris") is a kind of tiger. There are about 3,500 Bengal tigers: this is the largest number of any kind of tiger. 

They are the second largest tiger, after the Siberian tiger. Males are 8 - 10.2 feet long and females are 2.7 m long. They weigh 300 - 630 pounds on average. They live in Bangladesh, a country which is very poor and filled with green grass, where it is the "National animal" of Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar and Nepal. Bengal Tigers are predator animals and usually hunt their prey alone. They bite their prey on their throat or neck, using their powerful jaws.When two male tigers meet they do not start fighting right away rather snarl and roar.Then they test each others strength by standing on their back legs and wrestling until one gives up and runs away.


</doc>
<doc id="16445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16445" title="Wikipedia:Transwiki log/Articles moved to here">
Wikipedia:Transwiki log/Articles moved to here



</doc>
<doc id="16497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16497" title="Category:1801">
Category:1801


</doc>
<doc id="16499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16499" title="Taekwondo">
Taekwondo

Taekwondo (also spelled tae kwon do, taekwon-do, or more exactly taegwondo) is a martial art (system of fighting) of Korean origin, similar enough to the Japanese karate. It is based on the utilization of the hands and feet in order to attack or to be defended from an adversary, although some techniques use fingertips, elbows, or knees in order to strike the opponent. Taekwondo is a national sport in South Korea, "kyeorugi" is a sport event in the Olympic Games. In the Korean alphabet hangeul, "태" (跆) signifies "to strike with the foot"; "권" (拳) to "strike with the hand"; and "도" (道) signifies "way", "road" or "route". "Taekwondo" can therefore be translated as "way of the foot and of the fist". 

Taekwondo refers to a great tradition of Korean martial arts (higher or under 2000 years), but exists in its current form only near 50 years. Today, it has been changed into a sport practiced very much. In the Olympic Games of Seoul 1988 and of Barcelona 1992 it became Olympic sport of exhibition and at present it has come to be Olympic sport of competition.

Taekwondo is best known for its use of kicks. This makes it different from other martial arts such as karate or certain forms of southern kung-fu. Kicking is important because the leg is the most powerful and longest body part that the martial artist can use as a weapon. Therefore, a fighter who kicks well can hurt his opponent without hurting himself.

One of the most important exercises is the act of doing "poomse" ("katas" in terminology of karate). The "poomses" are the arranged groups of movements of defense and of attack. They simulate a combat against diverse adversaries, and they are related directly to the different degrees of belts. They are done with the purpose to improve the equilibrium, the elasticity, the rapidity and the control of the different movements.

Taekwondo as a sport and as an exercise is popular among people of both sexes and many ages. Taekwondo develops force, speed, balance, flexibility, and stamina. It also involves mental focus. Breaking boards, for example, demonstrates a union of mental and physical discipline. Breaking a board with one's hand or foot requires both the physical mastery of the technique and a concentrated focus on one's force.

History

Even though some things in Tae Kwon Do have changed over the years, respect is not one of those things. Respect is the biggest part of Tae Kwon Do, without respect Tae Kwon Do would not the huge art it is today. Some of the things that have changed are the belts. The original colors are still the same, but every time you test you either receive a new belt or receive a stripe to place on you current belt. Before all these people decided that the old belts were nasty, each person got one belt. One belt, no more. There still were colors though: white, the color the belt was originally; yellow, the color achieved thorough sweat soaking into the belt; green, a color that came though practicing outside and falling; blue, the color of the sky; red, the color of blood; and black, the color of all the dirt mixing with everything else on the belt.

There are several world-wide taekwondo associations. The most known of them are:





</doc>
<doc id="16500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16500" title="Fish and chips">
Fish and chips

Fish and chips is a kind of food that originally came from the United Kingdom. It is a popular kind of fast food in some parts of the world. As the name says, it made of chips and a deep fried fish fillet.
Shops and restaurants that have fish and chips are easy to find in England and Wales. They are common in British cities.

Traditionally, cod, haddock, or (rarely) flounder are used to make fish and chips. Of these, cod is by far the most popular. Other fish with white meat can be used as well, for example whiting or plaice. Many places that serve fish and chips have more than one kind of fish. The customers can then choose what kind of fish they want...

The fish is always dipped in batter, which is a kind of liquid mixture which hardens upon frying. After that, it will be fried for a short time. The phrase 'fish & chips' implies that it will be fried in batter; of course, in a fish restaurant, grilling or boiling would be alternatives. Fish cooked like that do not have batter.

The chips are made from sliced potatoes. They are larger than French fries. Large slices of potatoes are fried.

Very often there are other side-dishes that are served with Fish and chips. They include peas, onions, gherkins, and baked beans. In Northern England there is also the variety chips and gravy (a little sauce) on the chips. It is less common in the rest of the country.

Very often the shops and restaurants that serve fish and chips do not have a license to serve alcohol. Some nutritionists criticize fish and chips, because the meal contains a large amount of fat.


</doc>
<doc id="16504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16504" title="Marxist economics">
Marxist economics

Marxist economics comes from the ideas of a philosopher named Karl Marx applied to economics. He created it to explain the "rules of motion" of production and exchange under capitalism. This theory was used to argue against the middle class theories of economics common at that time. Marx wanted this to be a tool for the working class (the proletariat) to use to overthrow capitalism and replace it with socialism, then with communism. Socialism, would be a step towards the disappearance of the state, and communism would be, according to Marx, a society where goods and services would be distributed "to each according to his need, from each according to his ability."

Marx used the Labor Theory of Value, which says that the value of a commodity is determined by the labor required to produce it. More specifically, Marx defined the value of a commodity as the Socially necessary labor time required to produce it, the average (taken across all of society) time required to produce a given commodity under the average conditions of production. It follows from this that the [working class] is responsible for the production of all of the [value] (wealth) consumed by all members of society.

Marx viewed the capitalist class (the bourgeoisie), those who control the means of production, as leech-like and unnecessary; they are not necessary for the production of the goods society must consume in order to meet human needs and reproduce itself. Rather, Marx saw the capitalist class as getting wealth for itself by the exploitation of the working class. Marx argued that wages under capitalism are determined not by the value created by workers during a given period of time, but by the cost of their labor power (ability to work). He argued that the cost of labor power is determined by the cost of the goods and services (food, clothing, shelter, child care, education etc.) necessary to maintain and reproduce workers. So, capitalists do not pay workers for the value they create: they extract Surplus value, the difference between the value created by a worker and the cost of their labor power (their wages), from the working class. In other words, surplus value is unpaid labor performed by the working class for the capitalist class, which Marx termed exploitation.

Marx argued that because the capitalist class enriches itself by the exploitation of the working class, the economic interests of the two classes are opposed and therefore irreconcileable. He saw the dispossession of the capitalists and the seizure of control of the means of production by the working class as historically progressive in that it would bring about the end of class society, remove the contradictions inherent under capitalism (a result of the antagonism of the two major classes, the bourgeoisie and proletariat), and qualitatively increase the scope of human development in myriad arenas.



</doc>
<doc id="16510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16510" title="South African rand">
South African rand

The rand is the South African currency. 100 cents makes up one rand. 
The rand is named after an area near Johannesburg called the Rand, that is famous for its gold mines.

The symbol for the rand is a capital R, written before the sum. Thus, one hundred rands is written as R100.


</doc>
<doc id="16511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16511" title="The Care Bears Movie">
The Care Bears Movie

The Care Bears Movie is an animated movie that came out on March 29, 1985. It was produced by Nelvana Limited of Canada, and was distributed by The Samuel Goldwyn Company. It was the first in a trilogy(or set of three) of big-screen movies that had the Care Bears in lead roles, and the first to be based directly on a toy line. The movie's success led to a spin-off that premiered on ABC a year after its release.

There were well-known celebrities among the movie's starring line-up, such as Carole King, who wrote and sung its opening theme. John Sebastian and NRBQ also contributed to its score. The movie also had the voices of Mickey Rooney, Canadian actress Georgia Engel, and voice actress Cree Summer.

It was made as a full-length commercial for the title toys, and had mixed views from critics. But its $23 million gross at the box office made it the biggest animated work outside the Disney market when it came out. It is one of the most profitable releases in the animation industry (its cost was $3 million). The movie saved Nelvana from closing down when "Rock & Rule", the company's first production, did not do well.

The Care Bears Movie holds financial records for non-Disney animation (at the time it first came out), for Canadian moviemaking (only rivalled by "Porky's" and, more recently, "The Wild"), and for its distributor Samuel Goldwyn.

Its director, Arna Selznick, was one of three women to ever lead the production for a full-length cartoon. To this day, she is proud of these efforts, though she was aware of the strategy to promote it.

In this movie, an orphanage caretaker named Mr. Cherrywood tells the story of how the Care Bears come to help two children who do not care for anyone (Kim and Jason). The Care Bears live in Care-a-lot, a cloud-filled place up in the sky. As the two of them become friends with the Bears, a carnival magician's helper, Nicholas, turns from good to bad, because of an evil spirit he got from an old book.

When the boy's evil grows more and more, the Care Bears and their Cousins (from the Forest of Feelings), along with Kim and Jason, come back to Earth to end his evil doings. In turn, the carnival and the whole world will be saved.



</doc>
<doc id="16512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16512" title="1779">
1779



</doc>
<doc id="16513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16513" title="1700">
1700



</doc>
<doc id="16514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16514" title="366">
366

Centuries: 3rd century - 4th century - 5th century

Decades: 310s 320s 330s 340s 350s - 360s - 370s 380s 390s 400s 410s

Years: 361 362 363 364 365 - 366 - 367 368 369 370 371



</doc>
<doc id="16515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16515" title="1322">
1322





</doc>
<doc id="16516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16516" title="1463">
1463



</doc>
<doc id="16517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16517" title="1205">
1205

1205 is a year in the 13th century.





</doc>
<doc id="16520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16520" title="Victoria (Australia)">
Victoria (Australia)

Victoria, is a state in Australia. It is in the south-east corner of the country. Its capital and largest, most-populated city is Melbourne. Geelong is Victoria's second biggest city, Ballarat is the third and Bendigo the fourth. In 2006 Victoria had a population of 4,932,422. After British settlement in Australia in 1788, it was called the Port Phillip District of New South Wales. In 1851, it became an independent colony. It was named after Queen Victoria. In 1901 it became a state in Commonwealth of Australia.

Victoria's premier is Ted Baillieu from the Liberal Party.

The state's emblems are:

Victoria has the highest population density of a state in Australia. Highways lead to and from population centres, mainly Melbourne and other major cities. Rail transport in Victoria is common. Major railway line operators include Metro Trains Melbourne, V/Line and Pacific National.

Melbourne Airport is the biggest domestic and international airport for Victoria. It is linked to Melbourne by the Tullamarine Freeway.

The Port of Melbourne or Port Melbourne is the largest port for cargo in Australia, located in Melbourne near Yarra River. Additional seaports are at Westernport Bay, Geelong, and Portland.

See main article Melbourne.

The city of Melbourne has many attractions, including shopping, the Crown Casino, Melbourne Zoo, Melbourne Museum, Melbourne Aquarium, Melbourne Docklands, Southbank and St. Kilda. Melbourne is also the home of cultural and sporting icons such as The Arts Centre, National Gallery of Victoria and the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) which held the 1956 Summer Olympics.

The historic cities of Ballarat, Beechworth, Bendigo, Castlemaine, Maldon and Daylesford which were all towns built on the goldfields during the 1850's.

Natural attractions include The Twelve Apostles on the Great Ocean Road, Wilson's Promontory, The Grampians, Buchan Caves, Gippsland Lakes and the penguins on Phillip Island. The Dandenong Ranges just east of Melbourne has the Puffing Billy Railway and Healesville Sanctuary.

The Murray River which is the state's northern border, has towns including Echuca and Mildura. Boating, fishing and other water sports are popular along the river.

Geelong, south west of Melbourne on Corio Bay, has many beaches, and hosts the Australian International Airshow. Nearby is the Bellarine Peninsula, which has many famous beaches such as Bells Beach, Torquay and Queenscliff.

The Mornington Peninsula is well known for its beaches and wineries.

The Victorian Alpine Region in the Australian Alps is popular for skiing with resorts at Falls Creek, Mount Hotham, and Mount Buffalo.

Victoria is the home of AFL, with ten of the sixteen clubs of the Australian Football League based in Victoria, and the traditional Grand Final held at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on the last Saturday in September.

Victoria's cricket team, the Victorian Bushrangers play in the national Pura Cup cricket competition.

Victoria has one team each represented in the National Rugby League and the Australian Rugby Championship, the Melbourne Storm and Melbourne Rebels respectively.

The hottest temperature recorded in Victoria was 48.8°C at Hopetoun, on the 9 February, 2009.
The coldest temperature recorded in Victoria was -11.7°C at Omeo, on 15 June, 1965.
The highest daily rainfall was 375mm at Tanbryn, on 22 March, 1983.

Victoria was the scene of much volcanic activity which started 40 million years ago. The Western Volcanic Plains which cover 10% of the state are the third largest volcanic plains in the world. Most of the plains were formed about six million years ago. There are about 400 volcanoes on the plains.

It is unknown exactly when humans settled in Victoria. A site near Keilor has evidence of Australian Aborigines living near on the Maribyrnong River more than 31,000 years ago. Victoria was one of the most populated areas of Australia. The Aborigines used fire-stick farming to burn the volcanic plains regularly, and they became some of the biggest grass plains in the world. This supported large numbers of animals such as kangaroos and wallabies. The Kulin federation were a large language group that lived on the plains and included the Watha wurrung, Boon wurrung, Woi wurrung, Daung wurrung and Djadja wurrung people. Other groups in Victoria included the Jari Jari, Ladji Ladji, Wemba Wemba, Wergaia, Jardwadjali, Gunnai, Waywurru and the Taungurung. In the rivers, creeks and wetlands the Aboriginals had built large fish traps to catch both fish and eels. In the Yarra River wetlands, some of these traps had stone walls about high.

Within ten years of the British settlement at Sydney in 1788, explorers began looking at the coast of Victoria. The first settlement in Victoria was at Sorrento, just inside the entrance to Port Phillip Bay. A small group of 51 soldiers, 308 convicts, 17 free settlers, 12 officials, one missionary and his wife, led by Lieutenant-Governor David Collins set up camp at the end of 1803. They had come from England to set up a colony because the British government was worried that the French may try to claim the area. However they were unable to find water and gave up the settlement within six weeks. They went further south and began the settlement of Hobart, Tasmania. While at Sorrento, a convict named William Buckley escaped. He lived with Aboriginal tribes until meeting with Europeans again when Melbourne was settled in 1835. On 12 December 1826, Captain Samuel Wright, Lieutenant Burchill, explorer William Hovell and 21 convicts tried to start a settlement near Corinella, on Westernport Bay. This was also unsuccessful and the group went back to Sydney on 19 February 1828.

Although the two official attempts to settle in Victoria had failed, there were a number of unofficial settlements along the coast. From 1820 small groups of people lived at various places along the south coast, including Phillip Island. They were hunting seals and Southern Right Whales. The Launceston Fishing Company had a base at Portland Bay. These hunters were often in conflict with the Aboriginal communities. The Europeans often captured Aboriginal women to use a slaves and for sex.. Edward Henty moved to Portland Bay and began sheep farming in December 1834. These settlements were against the law, as the British government was trying to restrict the areas of settlement. They argued that they did not have the ability to provide support to remote and isolated settlements. Repeated requests for official permission to settle in Victoria were refused by the government.

In 1835 a group of settlers, farmers and government officials from Tasmania formed the Port Phillip Association. Led by John Batman, who had heard about the grass plains from William Hovell, the group decided to ignore the British government and move flocks of sheep to Victoria. Batman landed at Indented Head, Victoria on 29 May 1835. He began exploring Port Phillip Bay. On 6 June 1835 he met with Aboriginal leaders near Merri Creek, and made a treaty. Under this treaty the Aboriginals agreed to allow Batman to use their land for his sheep. In return, they could continue to stay on the land, they would be provided with food and goods, and they would receive protection from other Europeans. This was the only treaty ever made with the Australian Aborigines. On 26 August 1835, the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Richard Bourke, said the treaty was against the law. The land belonged to the crown, and did not belong to the Aboriginals.

At the end of 1835, the British government changed its policy on settlement in eastern Australia. People were allowed to use large areas of the country for sheep farming. If people paid a £10 fee, they could settle wherever they liked. These farmers became known as "squatters", as they "sat" on the land, which they did not own. The effect of this new policy meant that between 1835 and 1838, more land was settled than had been since 1788. It has been described as the fastest land occupation in history. By 1849, just 1019 squatters had taken over 17.7 million hectares of land.

The effect of the fast land occupation had terrible consequences for the Victorian Aborigines. The squatters moved their sheep onto the grasslands that had once been the Aborigines main source of food. The squatters built their farms near the waterholes and creeks where the Aborigines had camped for thousands of years. The Aborigines began to kill sheep to eat, and attempted to stop people from taking their land. The early settlers tried to remove the Aborigines from the land. Sometimes they were chased away, and sometimes they were murdered. For example, at Murdering Creek, near Camperdown, 35-40 men, women and children were shot dead by the manager of Glenorminston Station, Frederick Taylor and several of his farm workers.

Gold was found in Victoria at Clunes on 28 June 1851. With further discoveries at Ballarat, Bendigo and Castlemaine there was a huge increase in the population as people came from all around the world.



</doc>
<doc id="16522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16522" title="Chaos theory">
Chaos theory

Chaos theory is a part of mathematics. It looks at certain systems that are very sensitive. A very small change may make the system behave completely differently. 

Very small changes in the starting position of a chaotic system make a big difference after a while. This is why even large computers cannot tell the weather for more than a few days in the future. Even if the weather was perfectly measured, a small change or error will make the prediction completely wrong. Since even a butterfly can make enough wind with its wings to do this, a chaotic system is sometimes called the ""butterfly effect"". No computer knows enough to tell how the small wind will change the weather.

Some systems (like weather) might appear random at first look, but Chaos Theory says that these kinds of systems or patterns may not be. If people pay close enough attention to what is really going on, they might notice the chaotic patterns.

The main idea of chaos theory is that a minor difference at the start of a process can make a major change in it as time progresses. Quantum chaos theory is a new idea in the study of chaos theory. It deals with quantum physics.
As an example, take a pendulum that is attached at some point, and swings freely. Connecting a second pendulum to the first will make the system completely different. It is very hard to start in the exact same position again - a change in starting position so small that it cannot even be seen can quickly cause the pendulum swing to become different from what it was before. 

A very important part to the study of chaos theory is the study of mathematics functions that are known as "fractals". Fractal functions work like chaotic systems: a small change in the starting values can change the value of the function in ways that look random. Due to the fact that they are mathematical, they are easy to study.


</doc>
<doc id="16524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16524" title="1540">
1540



</doc>
<doc id="16527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16527" title="First World">
First World

First World is a term used in politics and economics to refer to the wealthier and better developed nations. In these countries, the majority of the people are in the middle class and enjoy a good standard of living. This term is being used less, as terms like "global North" and "developed world" become more common.



</doc>
<doc id="16530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16530" title="Mulan">
Mulan

Mulan is a 1998 animated movie from Walt Disney Pictures, set in old-time China and based on local legend. It stars the voices of Ming-Na Wen as the title heroine, along with Eddie Murphy. Mulan was a success with its fans because it was different from Disney's other movies in terms of music and artistic design. The music was written by Jerry Goldsmith who also wrote the music for another animated movie, 1982's "The Secret of NIMH". Christina Aguilera sang "Reflections" for the movie's soundtrack.

A direct-to-video sequel, "Mulan II", was released on February 1, 2005 in the United States and on November 3, 2004 in Italy and Norway.

An army of Huns from Mongolia, led by Shan Yu, attack China. The Chinese army must face them, and needs one man from every family to enlist. Fa Mulan's father is willing to join, but he is old and has a limp, and it is clear that he cannot fight and will die in the war. Mulan is supposed to get married, but is so clumsy that the matchmaker sends her away in shame, shouting after her that she will never find a man. Mulan fears she has dishonoured her family, but now decides that she must save her father. She secretly takes her father's armour and weapon and leaves to report in the Chinese army.

Mushu is an old spirit guardian of the Fa family, who has lost his job and been turned into a dragon. The family ancestors want to send someone to watch over Mulan on her journey, and Mushu takes the job in order to restore his honour. He and the lucky cricket of the family catch up with Mulan, as she joins the small army led by Li Shang. Mulan presents herself as a man called Ping. All the men in the new army need a lot of training, but after a while the soldiers must face the enemy. 

The army meets the Huns in the snowy mountains. When the Chinese are attacked, Ping uses a cannon to start a snowslide that covers all the Mongolians. Ping is hurt by an arrow, and the doctor who examins him finds that he is not a boy but a girl. Li Shang becomes angry and leaves Mulan alone in the mountains. The army then travels to the Emperor's palace in the Imperial City. As Mulan and her animals spend the night trying to light a fire, they witness some of the surviving Mongols climbing from the snow, and they start moving towards the Emperor's city. Mulan decides to follow them and warn her friends in the army.

In the Imperial City the army is celebrated for winning the war, and no one will listen to Mulan's warnings, since she is a girl. Suddenly Shan Yu and his surviving men step forward, kidnap the emperor and hide in the palace. Mulan and her soldier friends, disguise as women and manage to fool the attackers and move the emperor to safety. Mulan, Shang and Mushu also send Shan Yu into the storage of fireworks using a cannon. The emperor rewards her for saving the country.

Mulan returns home with her imperial gifts to show her family. The honour of Mulan, of her family and also of the dragon is now restored. Shang is encouraged by the emperor to woo Mulan. He travels to her town, pays a visit and is invited to dinner by her family.



</doc>
<doc id="16531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16531" title="1823">
1823



</doc>
<doc id="16532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16532" title="1876">
1876




</doc>
<doc id="16534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16534" title="1861">
1861



</doc>
<doc id="16535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16535" title="1829">
1829



</doc>
<doc id="16536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16536" title="Baltimore, Maryland">
Baltimore, Maryland

Baltimore is the biggest city in the U.S. state of Maryland. In 2010 it had about 620,961 people living there. It is not in any county, so it is called an independent city. It is next to the Chesapeake Bay and used to be an important port for trade by ships. There is still some shipping but the Inner Harbor is now mostly famous for shopping and restaurants, and also for the National Aquarium, which is one of the best in the United States. Other museums in Baltimore are the Walters Art Museum, the Baltimore Museum of Art, and the American Visionary Art Museum. 

Baltimore is home to the Ravens (football) and Orioles (baseball), both professional sports teams. Its main newspaper is the Baltimore Sun. There is a place for horse races in the city called Pimlico. There are many colleges and universities in Baltimore, like Johns Hopkins University, Goucher College, Loyola College, Maryland Institute College of Art, and Morgan State University. 

The city was made in 1729 and is named after the British Lord Baltimore who started the colony of Maryland. The mayor of this city is Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. She is the second woman to be the mayor of Baltimore, the first was Sheila Dixon. Many governors of Maryland were mayor of Baltimore first. One famous thing that happened in Baltimore was in the War of 1812, when the British attacked the city and Francis Scott Key wrote a song about it called "The Star-Spangled Banner". It is now the national song of the United States. 

Some famous people from Baltimore are the Supreme Court judge Thurgood Marshall, the poet and writer Edgar Allen Poe, the baseball player Babe Ruth, the singer Billie Holliday, and the movie director John Waters. Some famous neighborhoods are Fells Point, Canton, Little Italy, (Federal Hill), Mount Vernon, Bolton Hill, Hampden, and Charles Village.

In 1706, the colony of Maryland's General Assembly created the Port of Baltimore at Locust Point. It was built for tobacco trading. The Town of Baltimore was founded on July 30, 1729. It was named after Cecilius Calvert, the British Lord Baltimore. Calvert was the first Proprietary Governor of the Province of Maryland.. Baltimore grew quickly in the 1700s as a granary (place for storing cereals and grains) for the sugar plantations in the Caribbean.
Baltimore was important in the time leading up to the American Revolution. Leaders like Jonathan Plowman Jr. got the city to refuse to pay taxes to Britain. Merchants (people who buy and sell things) signed agreements to not trade with Britain. The Second Continental Congress met in the Henry Fite House from December 1776 to February 1777. This made Baltimore the capitol of the United States during this time. In 1796, after the war, the Town of Baltimore, nearby Jonestown, and an area called Fells Point were incorporated as the City of Baltimore. (This means that these areas all merged together and became the City of Baltimore.) The city was a part of Baltimore County until 1851. It then became an independent city. 

During the War of 1812, the Battle of Baltimore happened in the city. The British attacked Baltimore on the night of September 13, 1814. This was right after they burned Washington D.C.. United States soldiers from Fort McHenry defended the Inner Harbor. Francis Scott Key watched the battle from a British ship in the harbor. He wrote the poem "The Star-Spangled Banner" about the attack. In 1931, "The Star-Spangled Banner" became the official National Anthem of the United States.

After the Battle of Baltimore, the number of people who lived in the city grew quickly. The National Road (now part of U.S. Route 40) and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) connected the city with big markets in the Midwest. This made Baltimore a very important shipping and manufacturing center. Baltimore was nicknamed "the Monumental City" by President John Quincy Adams in 1827. During an event, Adams gave a toast and said: "Baltimore: the Monumental City – [m]ay the days of her safety be as prosperous and happy, as the days of her dangers have been trying and triumphant." In 1835, the Baltimore bank riots happened. These were one of the worst riots of the antebellum South. (The "antebellum" period is the time right before the American Civil War.)

During the American Civil War, Maryland did not secede from the Union. (That is, Maryland stayed a part of the Union and did not join the Confederacy.) When Union soldiers marched through the city at the start of the war, some people attacked the soldiers. This started the Baltimore riot of 1861. Four soldiers and 12 civilians were killed. After the riot, Union soldiers occupied (stayed in) Baltimore. During the war, Maryland was governed directly by the federal government and the state government did not have any power. This was to keep the state from seceding (leaving the Union). After the war ended in April 1865, Maryland began governing itself again.

During the 1870s there was an economic depression called the "Panic of 1873." After the Panic, the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad company decided to pay its workers less. This caused the Great Railroad Strike of 1877. These strikes stopped train service in Cumberland in western Maryland. On July 20, 1877, the Maryland Governor, John Lee Carroll, ordered the Maryland Army National Guard to stop the strikes. People who supported the railroad workers attacked the national guard soldiers. Soldiers from the 6th Regiment fired their guns at the crowd. 10 people were killed, and 25 people were hurt. This started a riot. Trains were damaged and parts of Camden Station were burned. US Army soldiers came to Baltimore to protect the railroad and end the strike. The riot and strike ended on July 21–22, 1877.

The Great Baltimore Fire started on February 7, 1904. It burned for 30 hours and destroyed 1,500 buildings. More than 70 blocks of downtown burned to the ground. The fire caused about $150 million of damage (US$ million in 2017.)

The city grew bigger by annexing (absorbing) suburbs from nearby counties. The last suburb was added in 1918. The city added parts of Baltimore County and Anne Arundel County. In 1948, the state constitution was ammended (changed). It now required a special vote by citizens before an area could be added to the city. This stopped the expansion (growth) of the city.

In 1950, the city was 23.8% black. By 1970, it was 46.4% black. After Martin Luther King, Jr. was murdered in Memphis, Tennessee on April 4, 1968, the Baltimore riot of 1968 started. It lasted until April 12, 1968. The riot cost the city about $10 million (US$ million in 2017). During the riot, 11,000 Maryland National Guard soldiers and US Army soldiers tried to protect the city. It is possible to see some effects of the riots today. Parts of North Avenue, Howard Street, Gay Street, and Pennsylvania Avenue are barren, empty, and not taken care of.

During the 1970s, Baltimore's downtown area, called the "Inner Harbor," was run down and neglected. It was full of empty and abandoned warehouses. The city began trying to redevelop the area. The Baltimore Convention Center was opened in 1979. Harborplace, a shopping and restaurant area, opened in 1980. The National Aquarium in Baltimore (Maryland's largest tourist destination) and the Baltimore Museum of Industry opened in 1981. In 1992, the Baltimore Orioles baseball team moved from Memorial Stadium to Oriole Park at Camden Yards near the harbor. Six years later the Baltimore Ravens football team moved into M&T Bank Stadium next to Camden Yards.

The National Register of Historic Places lists 280 historical properties in Baltimore city.

Baltimore is in north-central Maryland. It is on the Patapsco River, close to where it empties into the Chesapeake Bay. It is located on the fall line between the Piedmont Plateau and the Atlantic Coastal Plain. (The "fall line" is a phrase in geology that means that this is a place where two different kinds of earth meet.) The fall line splits Baltimore into a "lower city" and "upper city."

At the harbor, the city is at sea level. The highest point is near Pimlico in the northwest. There the elveation is .

According to the 2010 census, the city has a total area of . This is of land and of water. The total area of Baltimore City is 12.07% water.

Baltimore is in the humid subtropical climate zone ("Cfa".) This is according to the Köppen climate classification

July is usually the hottest month of the year. The average temperature in July is . Summer is usually very humid. The highest temperature on record is in 1936. 

January is the coldest month of the year. Sometimes wind from the subtropics brings springlike weather during winter. At night, winds from the Arctic make temperatures drop into the teens (in Fahrenheit; less than -7 °C.) Some nights the temperature drops to the single digits (less than -12 °C.) The coldest temperature on record is from 1934.

Downtown Baltimore and the parts of the city that are on the coast are usually warmer than other parts of Baltimore. This is because of the urban heat island effect. Also the Chesapeake Bay acts to moderate the effects of temperature. This means that the water helps keep the temperature from changing greatly.

Baltimore gets a lot of rain during the whole year. There is no "rainy season" or "dry season." This is normal in most cities on the the East Coast of the United States. Every month, about of precipitation (rain, snow, sleet, etc.) falls in Baltimore. The total rainfall yearly average is around . There are usually about 105 sunny days in a year. There are lots of rain showers and thunderstorms during spring, summer, and fall. In the winter, there are longer but lighter rain showers, and less sunshine and more clouds. It sometimes snows in the winter. The average snowfall is .

Baltimore's main newspaper is "The Baltimore Sun." In 1986, the newspaper was sold to the Times Mirror Company. This company was bought by the Tribune Company in 2000. Today, "The Sun" is still a Tribune newspaper.

Up until 1986, Baltimore was a two-newspaper town. (This was very common for US cities.) The other main newspaper was the "Baltimore News-American". The "News-American" went out of business in 1986.

"The Baltimore Examiner" was started in 2006 to compete with "The Sun." It was owned and run by a company that also published newspapers like "The San Francisco Examiner" and "The Washington Examiner". "The Examiner" was a free newspaper that was paid for by advertising. ("The Sun" is not free.) "The Examiner" was not able to make money, and it stopped being published on February 15, 2009.

According to Nielsen Market Research, Baltimore had the 26th-largest television market in 2008-2009. It was the 27th-largest market for 2009-2010. Arbitron listed Baltimore as the 22nd-largest radio market in Fall 2010.

Baltimore has eleven sister cities. These were picked by Sister Cities International.



</doc>
<doc id="16537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16537" title="Chantilly, Virginia">
Chantilly, Virginia

Chantilly is a community in Fairfax County, Virginia. The Battle of Chantilly was fought here during the American Civil War.


</doc>
<doc id="16539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16539" title="Corpus Christi, Texas">
Corpus Christi, Texas

Corpus Christi, Texas is a city in the United States. It is near the coast of the Gulf of Mexico and is one of the fastest growing cities in America. Its economy is based around petroleum refining and tourism.


</doc>
<doc id="16541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541" title="Sick">
Sick

To be sick can mean:

Sick may also refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="16544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16544" title="Panama Canal">
Panama Canal

The Panama Canal is a waterway in the country of Panama (Central America), that connects the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. The Panama Canal uses three "locks" for lifting and lowering the ships on different water levels. Each year, about 14,000 ships come through the canal. By 2002, around 800,000 ships came through. The French tried building it in 1880, but failed. It was finally finished in 1914 by the United States who spent ten years on building it. The canal is 77 km (48 miles) long, cutting across the Isthmus of Panama, and saves ships 15,000 km. If a ship is too big to go through the Panama Canal it has to go around South America. 

It is an interesting fact that, because of the way Panama twists, the entrance to the Pacific Ocean is farther east than the entrance to the Atlantic Ocean. This is the opposite of what one would expect.



</doc>
<doc id="16545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16545" title="Suriname">
Suriname

Suriname, or Surinam, Dutch Guiana, Dutch Guyana or Sranang is a country in South America. The official name of the country is Republiek Suriname (this is Dutch and translates to "Republic of Suriname"). It used to be known as "Nederlands Guyana", "Netherlands Guiana" or "Dutch Guiana". It is located between Guyana and French Guiana. Paramaribo is the capital city. About half a million people live in the country. Suriname became independent from the Netherlands in 1975. 
There are border disputes with French Guiana and Guyana all to the south of the country. 

The industry of the country is centered on the extraction and processing of bauxite. This makes up 15 percent of the Gross Domestic Product and more than 70% of the exports. Other exports are sugar, oil and gold. About 25% of the working people are employed in agriculture. The main trade partners are the Netherlands, the United States and countries in the Caribbean. Also, the area was discovered by Dutch, French, Spanish and English explorers. A century later, plantation colonies were established by the Dutch and English along the many rivers in the fertile Guyana plains. England traded any claims to the territory for New Amsterdam which became New York.


</doc>
<doc id="16547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16547" title="Aarre Merikanto">
Aarre Merikanto

Aarre Merikanto (June 29, 1893 – September 29, 1958) was a Finnish composer. His parents were Liisa Häyrynen and the composer Oskar Merikanto.

Merikanto was born in 1893. He studied music in Helsinki (1911), Leipzig (1912-1914) and Moscow (1916-1917). He tried composing an opera for the first time when he was 18 years old. The result was "Helena", which was completed in early 1912. The opera had one act and its libretto was written by Jalmari Finne. In the 1920s Merikanto created his own modernist style. Merikanto was a professor of composition in the Sibelius Academy, Helsinki from 1951 to his death. Merikanto died of lung cancer in Helsinki in 1958.



</doc>
<doc id="16550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16550" title="1878">
1878




</doc>
<doc id="16551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16551" title="1325">
1325



</doc>
<doc id="16554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16554" title="1076">
1076



</doc>
<doc id="16555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16555" title="1568">
1568




</doc>
<doc id="16558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16558" title="Chieftain">
Chieftain

A chieftain is the leader of a tribe of people.
The chieftain is responsible for the people from his tribe and when something bad happens he knows how to behave. The chieftain can make important decisions such as deciding whether or not to go to war.


</doc>
<doc id="16559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16559" title="Tribe">
Tribe

A tribe is a small group of people who live and work together. A tribe can be a collection of families or may have families and individual people living together.

It is necessary to do work to keep people alive, and a tribe usually divides up the jobs that need to be done amongst themselves.

In today's world people think of tribes as being from a far distant time in the past when people did not live in cities yet and there were no nations. There are still tribal groups in existence all over the world but their numbers are getting smaller and smaller. 


</doc>
<doc id="16563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16563" title="1832">
1832


</doc>
<doc id="16564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16564" title="Satan">
Satan

Satan, in the Christian religion, is a former angel that left God and took many other angels with him. He did this because he wanted to be better than God. According to the Bible, he will be punished in eternal Hell fire, along with all those who join to him. He is sometimes called "the devil" or "Beelzebub". Christians believe he tempts people to do bad things. Some also call him "Lucifer", but this name is from Roman belief, not the Bible. Satan may be referred to as "The Devil".

Originally the name means "the accuser", "the enemy". In abrahamitic faiths (Judaism, Christianity, Islam) his role is to question and tempt the faith of humans. Many times, he is also seen as a demon.


</doc>
<doc id="16573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16573" title="Hiking">
Hiking

Hiking is a general word for travelling on foot in the mountains or the countryside. 

Hiking is a kind of physical activity as well as a leisure activity (a way of spending free time). Hikers (the people who do hiking) enjoy fresh air and the beauty of nature. Hiking can also be an attraction for people who enjoy challenging their physical and mental strength. Hiking gives them the chance to become stronger. 

In general, people can make profit on it for having rest, health, and everyday life.

The three parts to the hiking process are: 

Planning means a hiker should decide what he wants from the hike. A traveller should examine the information on landscape, climate, weather, plants, animals, type of ground, and so on. Based on that information, a hiker decides what equipment (tools) he needs. Writing everything on paper is strongly suggested not to forget anything. A hiker should choose the itinerary (the way of the hike). 

Equipping means getting specialized clothing and equipment. Different suggestions can be found on each point in any hiking book. A hiker is suggested to learn more than one source and work. Equipping sometimes needs getting skills in using the apparatus. Basic skills–different ways of orientation (the ability to find the way, for example)–must be developed before hiking.

Hiking itself lies in the observation of the presented steps and hiker's skills. There are different hiking tips and suggestions in the internet (see other websites).

Hiking can quickly become a fight for living. For the reason everything in hiking is very important. Nobody can be suggested to hike alone, no matter what the situation, until a hiker fell certain of his expert hiking abilities. 

Every hiker should keep in mind that theory is important, but it can hardly replace firsthand experience. To feel himself safe a traveller should have enough experience. A hiker had better start by taking short hikes.

A hiker is strongly suggested to check from time to time (at least every hour) whether he is on the right way. On no account should he go on travelling, if he finds out he has lost his way. The first thing a hiker should to do is to find the about direction in which he was travelling before getting lost. Using the compass and the map, he should choose a reference (easy to get to) point nearby (railway, road, river, etc.).




</doc>
<doc id="16574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16574" title="Saint Petersburg">
Saint Petersburg

Saint Petersburg (Sankt-Peterburg/Санкт-Петербург) is a Russian city in northwestern Russia on the Gulf of Finland of the Baltic Sea. 4.7 million people (2002) live in St. Petersburg today, and it is the second biggest city in Russia. It connects with the rest of the world's shipping paths through the Baltic Sea.

Saint Petersburg was started by the Russian Tsar, Peter I as the capital of the Russian Empire in 1703, to take the place of the earlier capital, Moscow. It was the capital of Russia until 1918. 

Saint Petersburg has changed its name many times. During World War I, when Russia and Germany were fighting each other, Russians thought the name Sankt Peterburg sounded too German, so Tsar Nicholas II, on August 31 (August 18, Old Style), 1914 decided that the city was renamed Petrograd. At the time of the Russian revolution, the Soviet capital was moved to Moscow, still the capital of Russia now.
After the Soviet capital was moved to Moscow, on January 26, 1924, three days after Lenin's death, Petrograd was renamed Leningrad in his honor. During World War II, the city was surrounded by the German army for twenty-nine months.

Leningrad again took its old name of St. Petersburg on September 6, 1991, when Russia stopped being communist. In every-day Russian, the city is often called just ""Piter"". The name of the "Oblast" (administrative province) where the city is the capital is still called "Leningrad Oblast".

Saint Petersburg was a beautiful city planned by Peter I. There are many man-made rivers (or canals) in the city, so the city is sometimes called the "Venice of the North". There are also beautiful buildings built by Russian emperors in other places of the city. Some of these buildings are the Hermitage Museum and the Winter Palace. 


</doc>
<doc id="16576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16576" title="Kiwifruit">
Kiwifruit

Kiwifruit ("Actinidia deliciosa") is a fruit. It has an oval shape, and is green on the inside with small black seeds that are edible. The kiwi has furry brown skin that is edible but is usually removed. The skin is relatively thin. The kiwi is native to South China.

The fruit was named in 1959 after the kiwi, a bird and symbol of New Zealand. Before that, its English name was Chinese gooseberry.

The kiwifruit is healthy and contains many vitamins and minerals, like vitamin C, potassium, and fiber. Kiwis have more vitamin C than an equivalent amount of orange.

There are different types of kiwifruit. The main types are hayward (the most common green kiwifruit), chico, saanichton 12, and golden kiwifruit. Golden kiwifruit are sweeter than normal green kiwifruit. Golden kiwifruit was invented by grafting and cross-pollinating different types of kiwifruit.


</doc>
<doc id="16583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16583" title="Aardvark">
Aardvark

The Aardvark ("Orycteropus afer") is a mammal from Africa. Its name means "earth pig" in the language Afrikaans. 


The Aardvark is the only surviving member of the family Orycteropodidae and of the order Tubulidentata.

The Aardvark looks a bit like other animals, like the South American anteaters but they are not related.

Adult aardvarks weighs about 50 Kilograms (110 pounds) and a little more than one meter (45 inches) long.

Aardvarks eat mostly ants and termites. They have a long sticky tongue which makes it easy to pick up many ants at once.

Aardvarks are nocturnal, which means they are awake at night and asleep during the day.


</doc>
<doc id="16591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16591" title="Rutherford B. Hayes">
Rutherford B. Hayes

Rutherford Birchard Hayes (October 4, 1822 - January 17, 1893) was the 19th President of the United States. He served only one term, from 1877 to 1881. Hayes was a Republican. He was elected governor of Ohio three times before becoming president. Hayes barely won the election of 1876, only defeating Democratic opponent Samuel Tilden after a Congressional committee gave Hayes some disputed electoral votes.

Hayes was born in Delaware, Ohio. He went to Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio, and then went to Harvard Law School. After graduating from law school, he became a lawyer. In 1849, he joined the Republican Party, which was new then, because he was against slavery. In 1852, he married Lucy Webb, a woman who was also against slavery. In the 1860s, he served in the American Civil War on the Union side, and became a major general. After the war ended, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives as a part of the Republican Party. In 1867, he became the governor of Ohio.

Ulysses S. Grant had been president since 1869, and was not going to run for president a third time in 1876. Grant was a member of the Republican Party, and while he was president, became known for allowing corruption to go on around him. The Republican Party did not want people to think that everybody in the party was corrupt, so they decided to make Hayes their candidate. They thought he was a good candidate because he had made many changes in Ohio while he was governor there that people thought were good, and because he was thought to have been a hero in the Civil War.

Grant ran against Samuel Tilden, whom the Democratic Party nominated. The election was close, and many people who did not think that Hayes fairly won the election called him "His Fraudulency". Tilden actually got more votes than Hayes, but Hayes got 185 votes in the Electoral College, while Tilden got 184, so Hayes won the election.

While he was president, Hayes ended the Reconstruction period that followed the American Civil War. He ordered military forces that had been in the Southern states to leave. He also sent federal troops to end a railroad strike. Hayes refused to seek a second term as president.

After being president, Hayes retired to Fremont, Ohio. He spent time talking about his beliefs that all children should have the chance to go to school, that people who had been in the military should get their fair payments for their service, and that people in prisons should be treated better.


</doc>
<doc id="16598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16598" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified

Pages listed in the subcategories here are marked with and need to be .


</doc>
<doc id="16601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16601" title="Vinyl record">
Vinyl record

The vinyl record (or record) is a way to record music (or other sounds) that was popular during most of the twentieth century. Vinyl records are played on a phonograph ("record player").

A vinyl record is a disk made of vinyl plastic. The sound is recorded on a very fine line or groove which goes around and around in a spiral from the outside edge of the disk to the center. The phonograph plays the sound with a needle that touches the groove. A record usually has different music on each side.
Thomas Edison made early phonographs in the 1870s. He originally used wax cylinders to record the sound, but disks were soon used instead, first made out of bakelite, and then vinyl. Singles usually carried only one or two songs or recordings. EPs (extended play records) carried from three to five songs. Albums carried many more recordings; a dozen was normal, or from 30 to 45 minutes of playing time. These formats are still used today, with digital recordings, and playing time for singles and albums has grown considerably.

Vinyl records lost popularity but never went out of production. Now, in recent years vinyl is gaining popularity, while CD record shops have gone out of business, more and more vinyl only record shops are opening. Many argue the higher sound quality of vinyl compared to newer formats. 


</doc>
<doc id="16604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16604" title="Eyebrow">
Eyebrow

An eyebrow is the stripe of hair about 2 cm over the eye. Eyebrows protect the eyes, if water runs over the face or if there is too much sunlight. The eyebrow's ability to move is also important in facial expression.


</doc>
<doc id="16608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16608" title="Halifax Regional Municipality">
Halifax Regional Municipality

Halifax Regional Municipality is the capital city of the province of Nova Scotia, in the country of Canada. The population of the Halifax region was 359,111 in the year 2001.


</doc>
<doc id="16611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16611" title="Solstice">
Solstice

A solstice is an astronomical event that happens twice each year when the Sun reaches its highest position in the sky as seen from the North or South Pole. The day of the solstice is either the "longest day of the year" or the "shortest day of the year" for any place on Earth, because the length of time between sunrise and sunset on that day is the yearly maximum or minimum for that place. The name is derived from the Latin words "sol" (“sun”) and "sistere" (“to stand still”). During the solstice, the Sun stands still; that is, the seasonal movement of the Sun's path comes to a stop before reversing direction. The “Northern Solstice” occurs in June, when the sun is at its highest point seen from the North Pole. The “Southern Solstice” occurs in December, when the sun is at its highest point seen from the South Pole.

The solstices, together with the equinoxes, are connected with the seasons. In some cultures they mark either the beginning or the middle of summer and winter.
The June Solstice happens when the Northern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted toward the Sun and the Southern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted away from the Sun. At the North Pole, the Sun reaches its highest point in the sky, and then begins moving lower. At the moment of the June solstice, the Sun is directly overhead some point on the Tropic of Cancer; this is the furthest north that the subsolar point ever reaches. In the Northern Hemisphere the June solstice is called the Summer Solstice (and marks the longest day of the year), while in the Southern Hemisphere it is called the Winter Solstice (and marks the shortest day of the year). The June Solstice is usually on June 21.

The December Solstice happens when the Southern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted toward the Sun and the Northern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted away from the Sun. At the South Pole, the Sun reaches its highest point in the sky, and then begins moving lower. At the moment of the December solstice, the Sun is directly overhead some point on the Tropic of Capricorn; this is the furthest south that the subsolar point ever reaches. In the Southern Hemisphere the December solstice is called the Summer Solstice (and marks the longest day of the year), while in the Northern Hemisphere it is called the Winter Solstice (and marks the shortest day of the year). The December Solstice is usually on December 21.

While the exact causes were long unknown, the effect (of days getting shorter or longer) was recognised in many ancient cultures. Many of the pre-Christian cultures, like the druidic, the Germanic and the Norse faith therefore celebrated these events as holidays.

When the importance of the old faiths vanished, the Christian religion took over some of the festivities, which were then carried out in the honour of a new (Christian) occasion. For instance, the date of Christmas in the Catholic and Protestant faith is just 3 days away from the December Solstice.



</doc>
<doc id="16612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16612" title="Theist">
Theist

A theist is a person who believes in gods or in just one god. A polytheist believes in gods. A monotheist believes in just one god. For example, a theisic religion is Christianity. The opposite to a theist is an atheist. An athiest is a person that does not believe in any god or gods.


</doc>
<doc id="16613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16613" title="Secular humanism">
Secular humanism

Secular humanists believe that each human being is worth something and has dignity. They think that people are happiest when they give something to society. They also believe that human beings can solve problems without help from god(s).

Secular humanists are not religious. Usually they are atheists.


</doc>
<doc id="16622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16622" title="Quebec City">
Quebec City

Quebec City is the capital of the Canadian province of Quebec. It is the second largest city in Quebec, behind Montreal. It is known for its winter fair, beautiful churches, and an old hotel called Château Frontenac. It is next to the Saint Lawrence River. There are almost 700,000 people in the whole area.

The city was created in 1608 at a First Nations (native) Canadian place called Stadacona. People came from France to live there. The English captured the city in 1759 during the Battle of the Plains of Abraham. The walls made to keep the city safe are still there.


</doc>
<doc id="16623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16623" title="Vancouver Island">
Vancouver Island

Vancouver Island is in the province of British Columbia in Canada. You can go there by boat from Vancouver (across the Strait of Georgia) or from the state of Washington (across the Strait of Juan de Fuca). Over 750,000 people live on the island. The first people to live on the island, before Europeans came, were the Nuu-chah-nulth, Salish, and Kwakiutl. The University of Victoria is located on Vancouver Island.

Some cities and towns on Vancouver Island:



</doc>
<doc id="16625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16625" title="First Nations">
First Nations

First Nations are the native tribes who lived in Canada before Europeans came there. Many Canadians also use "First Nations" to mean people with natives in their family trees. Many say it because these nations were here long before Canada, and to make it clearer that the First Nations have many cultures, and that some of the cultures are very different from others.

Other words that have been used for First Nations people, tribes, and cultures have been "indigenous", "aboriginal", "Indian", "Native Indian", "Amerind," or "native." Now many people say "Indian" only about people from India.


</doc>
<doc id="16626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16626" title="New Brunswick">
New Brunswick

New Brunswick is a province in Atlantic (Eastern) Canada. Its capital city is Fredericton. Other large cities are Saint John and Moncton.

More than 700,000 people live in New Brunswick. English and French are both spoken in this province. About 35% of the people living in New Brunswick speak French. Some industries such as Forestry, mining, farming and fishing are important to New Brunswick. The location of New Brunswick, is near a body of water called the Atlantic.


</doc>
<doc id="16628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16628" title="AC/DC">
AC/DC

AC/DC is a hard rock band from Australia. They formed in Sydney, Australia in November, 1973. AC/DC has sold an estimated 200 million albums worldwide, including 68 million in the United States of America. The two primary founders of the band, Malcolm Young and Angus Young, developed the idea for the band's name after their sister Margaret saw the initials "AC/DC" written on a sewing machine. "AC/DC" is an abbreviation for "alternating current/direct current," which refer to the two different types of charges used in electricity. The band chose the name because of their energetic “electrical” style of playing rock and roll. Even though AC/DC considers their music style simply as "rock and roll", AC/DC are often considered pioneers of heavy metal.







</doc>
<doc id="16629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16629" title="Double bass">
Double bass

The double bass is a large stringed instrument used in orchestras, jazz bands, rockabilly bands, bluegrass music, and some country music bands. It plays low-pitched musical notes in musical ensembles and bands. In jazz bands, these low-pitched musical notes are called the "bass line." The double bass looks like smaller instruments like the violin, viola, and cello.

The double bass is usually built from wood. Double basses have a hollow wooden body which helps to amplify the sounds of the instrument ("amplify" means "to make louder"). A wooden neck is attached to the body, and a flat wooded fingerboard is glued onto the neck. It usually has four metal strings which are strung with tension on the neck.
In an orchestra, double bass players bow the strings with a wooden bow strung with horsehair, or pluck the strings with their fingers (plucking the strings is called pizzicato). In jazz the double bass is played pizzicato most of the time. However some jazz players use the bow to play melodies on the double bass.

To play different notes on the double bass, double bass players hold down the metal strings against the fingerboard with their left hand and then bow the string or pluck it with their right hand. To play different notes the double bass players move the left hand to different positions on the fingerboard.

Double bass players in jazz bands or rock bands often connect their double bass to an electronic amplifier and a loudspeaker, to make a louder, stronger sound. This makes it easier for the double bass player,the other musicians, and the audience to hear the double bass's musical notes.

The double bass is usually considered a member of the violin family, because it is constructed using many of the same techniques as violins. The double bass also has influences from the viol family. Viols are old string instruments from the 1400s and 1500s with sloping "shoulders" on the instrument's body and flat backs. Like the viols, the double bass also has sloping "shoulders" on its body and a flat back.

The double bass is generally tuned in fourths, in contrast to members of the orchestral string family, which are tuned in fifths. Modern double basses are usually tuned, low to high, E-A-D-G, which is one octave lower than the four lowest-pitch strings on a guitar.

Throughout classical repertoire, there are notes that fall below the range of a standard double bass. Notes below low E appear regularly in double bass parts in the Baroque and Classical eras, when the double bass was typically doubling the cello part an octave below. In the Romantic era and the 20th-century, composers such as Mahler, Beethoven, Busoni, and Prokofiev also requested notes below the low E. There are two common methods for making these notes available to the player. Major European orchestras generally use basses with a fifth string, tuned to B three octaves and a semitone below middle C. Players with standard double basses (E-A-D-G) typically play the notes below "E" an octave higher.

In the United States, Canada and United Kingdom, most professional orchestral players use four-string double basses with a "C extension," which extends the lowest string down as far as low C, an octave below the lowest note on the cello. More rarely would one find a four-string double bass with a "B extension", extending the lowest string down to a low B. The extension is an extra section of fingerboard mounted up over the head of the bass. There are several varieties of extensions.

In the simplest version, there are no mechanical aids attached to the fingerboard extension except a locking nut for the "E" note. To play the extension notes, the player reaches back over the pegs to press the string to the fingerboard. The advantage of this "fingered" extension is that the player can adjust the intonation of all of the stopped notes on the extension, and there are no mechanical noises from metal keys and levers. The disadvantage of the "fingered" extension is that it can be hard to perform rapid alternations between low notes on the extension and notes on the regular fingerboard, such as a bassline that quickly alternates between "G" and the low "D".

The simplest type of mechanical aid is the use of wooden "fingers" that can be closed to press the string down and fret the C#, D, Eb, or E notes. This system is particularly useful for basslines that have a repeating pedal point such as a low D, because once the note is locked in place with the mechanical "finger", the lowest string then sounds a different note when it is played "open" (e.g., a low D).
With the B extension, the "fingers" can fret the low C.

The double bass also has many other names. Some bluegrass musicians call it a "bass fiddle" or a "bull fiddle." Rockabilly bands often call it an "upright bass" or "Doghouse" Some orchestra musicians call it a "contrabass." In a military concert band, it is often called the "string bass." Sometimes the double bass is simply called a "bass."



</doc>
<doc id="16631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16631" title="Allies of World War II">
Allies of World War II

The Allied Powers (or Allies of World War II) were a group of nations that fought against the Axis countries in World War II, later named the United Nations by U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt.

These nations were:


</doc>
<doc id="16633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16633" title="B-36 Peacemaker">
B-36 Peacemaker

The B-36 Peacemaker was a strategic bomber. It was used in the United States. The B-36 could carry a 21,000 pound bomb. The B-36 was never used in wartime, but was in a movie called Strategic Air Command. The Peacemaker could fly for 48 hours non-stop and was one of the longest ranged bombers at the time. It first flew in 1948, and the last combat flight was in 1959.


</doc>
<doc id="16634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16634" title="Wing">
Wing

A wing is the part of an animal or airplanes that allows it to fly.

A "wing" is part of an animal that allows it to fly. By moving its wings, the animal can produce lift and get off the ground.

Animals that have wings are insects, birds and bats. Birds' wings are made of feathers. The wings of bats are made of skin, which is stretched between the bones of the bat's arms and fingers. Not all insects and birds can fly, even if they have wings.




</doc>
<doc id="16642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16642" title="Disability">
Disability

A disability is condition that a person has which limits them in some way.

People with a disability or disabilities may need to use special equipment that can help them. This can include using a wheelchair, a cane or walking stick, hearing aids, a Teletypewriter (TTY) and using specially designed software and hardware for the personal computer.

People who use a wheelchair or cane/walking stick cannot walk up or down stairs in a building. They need to use ramps and elevators when going into and moving around in a building. Wide doorways and accessible toilets also make it easier for people with physical disabilities to use.




</doc>
<doc id="16653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16653" title="Newfoundland">
Newfoundland

Newfoundland is an island off the East Coast of Canada, and is part of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The capital city of Newfoundland is St. John's, on the north-east part of the island. Over 500,000 people live in Newfoundland (these people are called Newfoundlanders).

In Newfoundland, most people speak English, but there are also French speakers on the island, mostly in the south-west. In some areas of Newfoundland, people speak with an accent and use words that are not in standard English. There is even a dictionary of Newfoundland English. 

People first came to Newfoundland from countries like Norway, England, Portugal, France, and Ireland in the 16th century. The first explorers were the Vikings from Norway and they settled in L'Anse aux Meadows. They came because of the good fishing off the coast, especially off the south-east coast. Eventually they left because of disagreements with aboriginals.Today, there is still fishing, but not very much because people fished too much, and now there are not many fish left.

Cutting down trees and mining have also been attractions of the island. There are some paper mills (paper factories) in a few cities in Newfoundland.



</doc>
<doc id="16656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16656" title="Kiss (band)">
Kiss (band)

Kiss is an American hard rock/heavy metal band. The band started in the early 1970s. They formed in New York City in 1973. The original members are Gene Simmons, Paul Stanley, Peter Criss, and Ace Frehley. They are most famous for their stage show and songs like "Rock and Roll All Nite" (1975), "Strutter" (1974) and "Detroit Rock City" (1976).






</doc>
<doc id="16672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16672" title="The Visioner's Tale">
The Visioner's Tale

The Visioner's Tale is one of the little-known writings of Geoffrey Chaucer. Only parts of the story were left from when Chaucer wrote it in the 14th century, so it is not normally included in modern versions of the Canterbury Tales.

Here is the tale, as put together by someone from Denmark who studied the parts of the story, and tried to put them together:
"My lady's touch upon the lute is light,"
"yet she weaves the streams of melody,"
"with such profound synchicity,"
"that the river of time spills into dream,"
"into that ocean of unspoken promise,"
"where lives primordial the memory of future things,"
"here vision and voice and sound,"
"and meaning emerge at last as one."


</doc>
<doc id="16687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16687" title="Geoffrey Chaucer">
Geoffrey Chaucer

Geoffrey Chaucer (c. 1343–25 October 1400) was an English writer, poet, and philosopher. He is most famous for writing Canterbury Tales which had 24 stories but were not completed. He was one of the first writers to write in English.

Chaucer was probably born in London. His father, John, and grandfather were prosperous wine merchants in London. The name "Chaucer" is French and means shoemaker. However, we do not know many details of his early life and education.

By 1357 Chaucer was a page to Elizabeth, Countess of Ulster, wife of Lionel, 1st Duke of Clarence. In 1360, he was captured by the French near Reims during a battle in the Hundred Years War. He was then ransomed and released. King Edward III gave £16 towards his release. Chaucer married Phillipa (de) Roet. She was a lady-in-waiting to the queen and had close family connections to John of Gaunt. He had about three or four children.

Chaucer may have studied law in the "Inner Temple." He joined the Royal Court and travelled a lot around Europe on business for the king. He became one of the king's esquires. One of his first known poems was written in 1369. It was called "The Book of The Duchess", and was written after the death of John of Gaunt's wife, Blanche. In 1374, he became "Comptroller" (in charge of the money) of the Customs for the Port of London. He did this job for 12 years. It was a well paid job and Chaucer was quite wealthy.

When Richard II became king, Chaucer continued to working in Customs. He was also sent to Europe on several more diplomatic jobs for the king.

Chaucer moved to Kent in 1385 where he had a new position as Justice of the Peace. He was also elected as one of two knights of the shire to be a member of parliament. At the end of the year he lost his customs jobs. His wife, Phillipa, died in 1387. But on 12 July 1389, he was made the "Clerk of the Kings Works" looking after repairs to the royal palaces. He was given other small positions including looking after the river banks of the Thames, and as a deputy forester in the Royal Forest. Over the next few years Chaucer became poorer and often was given small payments and pensions from the king.

He died at St.Mary's Chapel in sevemoaks on 25 October 1400. Chaucer is buried in Westminster Abbey, in what is now called the Poets' Corner.

Chaucer did most of his writing between 1369 and 1393. He is famous for his collection of stories called the Canterbury Tales.


</doc>
<doc id="16689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16689" title="Category:1343">
Category:1343


</doc>
<doc id="16690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16690" title="Category:1340s">
Category:1340s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1340s which begins in the year 1340 and ends in the year 1349.


</doc>
<doc id="16691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16691" title="Category:1340s births">
Category:1340s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1340s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="16694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16694" title="Category:1400 deaths">
Category:1400 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16695" title="Category:1400s deaths">
Category:1400s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1400s, starting from the year 1400 to the year 1409.

Note that the year 1400 is actually the last year in the 14th century; 1401 is the first year in the 15th century.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16696" title="Category:1400">
Category:1400


</doc>
<doc id="16701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16701" title="Category:1878">
Category:1878


</doc>
<doc id="16702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16702" title="Category:1861">
Category:1861


</doc>
<doc id="16703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16703" title="Category:1823">
Category:1823


</doc>
<doc id="16704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16704" title="Category:1829">
Category:1829


</doc>
<doc id="16705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16705" title="Category:1568">
Category:1568


</doc>
<doc id="16706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16706" title="Category:1463">
Category:1463


</doc>
<doc id="16707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16707" title="Category:1322">
Category:1322


</doc>
<doc id="16708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16708" title="Category:1325">
Category:1325


</doc>
<doc id="16709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16709" title="Category:1076">
Category:1076


</doc>
<doc id="16710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16710" title="Category:366">
Category:366


</doc>
<doc id="16711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16711" title="Category:360s">
Category:360s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 360s which begins in the year 360 and ends in the year 369.


</doc>
<doc id="16714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16714" title="Category:30s">
Category:30s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 30s which begins in the year 30 and ends in the year 39.


</doc>
<doc id="16715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16715" title="Category:50s">
Category:50s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 50s which begins in the year 50 and ends in the year 59.


</doc>
<doc id="16716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16716" title="Category:1st century">
Category:1st century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 1st century, which began in the year 1 and ended in the year 100.

Note that the year 100 is included in in the 2nd century but is actually part of the 1st century.


</doc>
<doc id="16720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16720" title="Category:80s births">
Category:80s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 80s.


</doc>
<doc id="16723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16723" title="Category:1st century births">
Category:1st century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 1st century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16724" title="Category:20s">
Category:20s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 20s which begins in the year 20 and ends in the year 29.


</doc>
<doc id="16725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16725" title="Category:80s">
Category:80s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 80s which begins in the year 80 and ends in the year 89.


</doc>
<doc id="16726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16726" title="Category:0s">
Category:0s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 0s which begins in the year 1 and ends in the year 10.

Because nothing is "zeroth" in the numerical order, there is no "year zero" in either the Gregorian calendar or the Julian calendar). The first decade of the Common era runs from the beginning of the year 1 AD through the end of the year 10 AD, while the decade before it starts at the beginning of the year 10 BC and ends at the end of the year 1 BC.

The years 1 BC and 1 AD are consecutive, and so are the 1st century BC and the 1st century AD. 
Note that the term "the year 1" means "the 1st year", because the English uses cardinal numbers for years, instead of the more complicated ordinal numbers. This usage may not be relevant when the number of the year is small, but does come into prominence with three or four-digit numbers.


</doc>
<doc id="16728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16728" title="Category:60s deaths">
Category:60s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 60s, starting from the year 60 to the year 69.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16729" title="Category:60s">
Category:60s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 60s which begins in the year 60 and ends in the year 69.


</doc>
<doc id="16730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16730" title="Category:1st century deaths">
Category:1st century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 1st century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16731" title="Echidna">
Echidna

Echidna, the spiny anteater, is a monotreme that lives in Australia and in New Guinea. They form the family Tachyglossidae.

Echnidas have a long, tube-like mouth with a sticky tongue, and they are also covered in spines. They have mammary glands, and lay eggs. 

The echidna has a way of protecting itself. With its long, sharp claws, they quickly dig a hole until only their spines are accessible. The predator will not be able to get to it without injuring itself.
When there is a fire, the Echidna will dig down out of reach of the fire. 

Spiny anteaters eat ants. They also eat other small insects. Echidnas pick up the bugs with their sticky tongues.




</doc>
<doc id="16736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16736" title="Category:Events by year">
Category:Events by year

Categories and articles listing events by year.


</doc>
<doc id="16737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16737" title="Category:Albums by year">
Category:Albums by year

These categories list albums by the year in which they were released.


</doc>
<doc id="16738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16738" title="Category:1972 albums">
Category:1972 albums

Albums released in 1972.


</doc>
<doc id="16739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16739" title="Category:1972 in music">
Category:1972 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16740" title="Category:Years in music">
Category:Years in music


</doc>
<doc id="16741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16741" title="Category:1973 albums">
Category:1973 albums

Albums released in 1973.


</doc>
<doc id="16742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16742" title="Category:1974 albums">
Category:1974 albums

Albums released in 1974.


</doc>
<doc id="16743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16743" title="Category:1973 in music">
Category:1973 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16744" title="Category:1974 in music">
Category:1974 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16745" title="Category:1975 albums">
Category:1975 albums

Albums released in 1975.


</doc>
<doc id="16746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16746" title="Category:1976 albums">
Category:1976 albums

Albums released in 1976.


</doc>
<doc id="16747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16747" title="Category:1977 albums">
Category:1977 albums

Albums released in 1977.


</doc>
<doc id="16748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16748" title="Category:1978 albums">
Category:1978 albums

Albums released in 1978.


</doc>
<doc id="16749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16749" title="Category:1979 albums">
Category:1979 albums

Albums released in 1979.


</doc>
<doc id="16750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16750" title="Category:1981 albums">
Category:1981 albums

Albums released in 1981.


</doc>
<doc id="16751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16751" title="Category:1983 albums">
Category:1983 albums

Albums released in 1983.


</doc>
<doc id="16752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16752" title="Category:1984 albums">
Category:1984 albums

Albums released in 1984.


</doc>
<doc id="16753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16753" title="Category:1988 albums">
Category:1988 albums

Albums released in 1988.


</doc>
<doc id="16755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16755" title="Category:1997 albums">
Category:1997 albums

Albums released in 1997.


</doc>
<doc id="16758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16758" title="Category:2003 albums">
Category:2003 albums

Albums released in 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="16760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16760" title="2002 Bali terrorist bombing">
2002 Bali terrorist bombing

The 2002 Bali terrorist bombings took place in Kuta on the Indonesian island of Bali. The attack was the deadliest act of terrorism in the history of Indonesia. Kuta is a popular tourist destination. 202 people were killed. 164 of them were foreigners, 38 were Indonesian citizens. Most of those killed were Australians, Americans or Indonesians.In addition, 209 people were injured. 

At around 11 in the evening, a bomb destroyed a bar on Bali. The bomb was in a backpack, and only the person that owned it died. A few seconds later, a larger bomb went off. This bomb was close to 1,000 kilograms.

A terrorist group called Jemaah Islamiyah are believed to be responsible for making and exploding the device.

In total, four people were charged with the terrorist attack. An Indonesian court sentenced three of them to death. One person received a long prison sentence.


</doc>
<doc id="16761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16761" title="Category:1975 in music">
Category:1975 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16762" title="Category:1976 in music">
Category:1976 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16763" title="Category:1977 in music">
Category:1977 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16764" title="Category:1978 in music">
Category:1978 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16765" title="Category:1979 in music">
Category:1979 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16766" title="Category:1981 in music">
Category:1981 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16767" title="Category:1983 in music">
Category:1983 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16768" title="Category:1984 in music">
Category:1984 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16769" title="Category:1988 in music">
Category:1988 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16771" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16771" title="Category:1997 in music">
Category:1997 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16773" title="Category:2002 in music">
Category:2002 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16774" title="Category:2003 in music">
Category:2003 in music


</doc>
<doc id="16779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16779" title="B-17 Flying Fortress">
B-17 Flying Fortress

The Boeing 17 Flying Fortress was a heavy bomber, that was used by the United States Eighth Air Force during World War II. It first flew in 1935, and was introduced in 1938. It had a shorter range, and a smaller bomb load, then its sister bomber the B-24 Liberator, but it had more defensive arment. It dropped large amounts of bombs, and was also used during air raids against Germany, such as the raid on Dresden. The B-17 was also used in the Pacific, at the Battle of Midway. They were known for being able to get shot by enemy fighters many times and keep flying. the B-17 was a heavy duty bomber plane that carried 2 tons of bombs. Not many B-17's survived WWII. It was the result of the lack of escortations of fighters. Although the Flying Fortress took down many opposing fighters they also took a beating. Later in WWII, the U.S. air force decided to add escortations to the bombers giving them more protection. The escortations lasted till the end of WWII. 


</doc>
<doc id="16781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16781" title="Category:1958 deaths">
Category:1958 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16782" title="Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith">
Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith

Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith was a movie released in 2005. "Episode III" was one of the most anticipated movies of 2005.

The movie shows the events that led to the transformation of Anakin Skywalker to Darth Vader of the original trilogy. It also shows how Palpatine turned the Galactic Republic into the Galactic Empire as well as showing the destruction of the Jedi.




</doc>
<doc id="16783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16783" title="Category:323 BC deaths">
Category:323 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16784" title="Category:356 BC births">
Category:356 BC births


</doc>
<doc id="16785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16785" title="Midway Atoll">
Midway Atoll

Midway Atoll was the site of a famous battle in World War II, the Battle of Midway. The atoll is currently held by the United States of America.


</doc>
<doc id="16786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16786" title="Category:1909 births">
Category:1909 births


</doc>
<doc id="16787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16787" title="Category:1837 births">
Category:1837 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1837.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16788" title="Category:1908 deaths">
Category:1908 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16790" title="Category:1831 deaths">
Category:1831 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="16791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16791" title="Category:1758 births">
Category:1758 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1758.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16792" title="Category:1758">
Category:1758


</doc>
<doc id="16793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16793" title="Category:1700">
Category:1700


</doc>
<doc id="16794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16794" title="Category:1205">
Category:1205


</doc>
<doc id="16801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16801" title="Beşiktaş J.K.">
Beşiktaş J.K.

Beşiktaş Jimnastik Kulübü (Besiktas JK) is a Turkish football club from Istanbul. Besiktas JK was founded in 1903 by 26 young men in "Osman Pasa Konagi".

It was the beginning of the 20th century and it was forbidden then to attend sports activities on a club basis. People were gathering together all around Istanbul. Twenty-six young men (Huseyin Bereket, Mehmet Samil, Ahmet Fetgeri, Mehmet Ali Fetgeri, Fuat Balkan, Muhittin Pasa, Mazhar Kazanci, Nazim Nazif Ander, Haydar Bey, Cami Baykurt, Behcet Bey, Sevket Cenani, Mahmut Naci Bey, Refik Bey, Sukru Pasa, Haci Ahmet Pasa, Kilic Ali, Ziya Karamursel, Kenan Bey, Yuzbasi Fethi Bey, Seraffettin Bey, Seref Bey, Celal Davut, Hami Bey, Fuat Pasa, and Kamil Beyler) gathered together on November in 1902 and decided to found a club. Next year in 1903 the vision came to life and Besiktas JK was founded.

Besiktas is one of the 3 big clubs in Turkey. Others are Galatasaray and Fenerbahçe.


</doc>
<doc id="16805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16805" title="Phosphorus">
Phosphorus

Phosphorus has the chemical symbol P, and its atomic number is 15. Its mass number is 30.97. It is not found in nature as an element but as compounds, such as phosphates. It can be a red or a white waxy solid.

Phosphorus comes in several forms. White and red phosphorus are the most common forms. White phosphorus is a waxy white solid. When pure, it is colourless. It is insoluble in water, but soluble in carbon disulphide, an organic solvent. It turns light yellow when in air. It glows in the dark because it "burns" very slowly in air. 

When exposed to sunlight, or when heated in its own vapour to 250 °C, it is converted to the red variety. This form does not ignite spontaneously and it is less toxic and less flammable than white phosphorus. The red modification is fairly stable and sublimes with a vapor pressure of 1 atmosphere at 417 °C.

White phosphorus is more reactive than red phosphorus. White phosphorus catches fire spontaneously in air, burning to make smoke of phosphorus(V) oxide. If it burns in a little air, it produces poisonous phosphorus(III) oxide. When white phosphorus is heated in an alkali, it disproportionates to produce hypophosphites and phosphine. Red phosphorus can burn but needs to be ignited. Phosphorus reacts with the halogens to make phosphorus halides. It reacts with some metals to make phosphides.

Phosphorus forms chemical compounds in several oxidation states: -3, +1, +3, and +5. -3 is found in phosphine and phosphides. They are strong reducing agents. +1 compounds are found in hypophosphites. They are strong reducing agents, too. They are toxic. +3 compounds are found in phosphites. They are reducing agents. They are toxic, too. +5 compounds are found in phosphates and phosphoric acid. They are normally non reactive and non toxic. Phosphates are the most common phosphorus compounds. All of the other ones are rare.

It is an essential component of living systems and is found as phosphate in nervous tissue, bones and cell protoplasm. It is also found in the earth as phosphate rock. Phosphate rock is the main source of phosphorus and phosphorus compounds. Many body tissues have calcium phosphates in them.

Phosphorus was first made by heating a mixture of phosphates and carbon in an iron pot. The phosphates were made by dissolving bones in strong acids and evaporating the solution. 

Phosphorus is made now by heating calcium phosphate, carbon, and silicon dioxide in an electric arc furnace. The heat of the electric arc melts the mixture of materials, and phosphorus gas is given off. It is absorbed under water. This makes white phosphorus.

White phosphorus is used in incendiary weapons and smoke grenades. It is also used to make organic compounds that have phosphorus in them. Phosphorus is used to dope semiconductors. Phosphorus is used to remove oxygen from copper. It is also used in making alloys. Red phosphorus is used in matches and flares.

Phosphorus compounds are used for fertilizers, soft drinks, toothpaste, and detergents. Most of these are phosphates. Phosphides can be used to kill rodents.

White phosphorus is very dangerous. It is very toxic and ignites easily, burning with a very hot flame. Red phosphorus is much safer. Some phosphorus compounds are toxic, but the common phosphates are not toxic.



</doc>
<doc id="16842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16842" title="Franklin Pierce">
Franklin Pierce

Franklin Pierce was born on November 23, 1804, in Hillsborough, New Hampshire. He attended school at Hillsborough Center but then moved to Hancock Academy in Hancock at the age of 11. After attending school there for five years, he was transferred to Francetown in the spring of 1820. After he entered, he felt homesick and returned home. Consequently, his father then put him in a wagon, drove him half way back to school, and left him on the roadside without saying a word. Franklin walked the seven remaining miles back to school. Later that year, he was transferred to Phillips Exeter Academy to prepare for college. That fall, he was sent to Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine. While he was there, Franklin Pierce participated in literary, political, and debating clubs. During his second year there, his grades were the lowest in his class, but he was able to improve them and graduated with the rank of third best in his class.

Once finished with college, he went to law school in Northampton, Massachusetts. Pierce was admitted to the bar and began law practice in Concord, New Hampshire, in 1827. Franklin Pierce rose to a central position in the Democratic party of New Hampshire and was elected to the lower house in New Hampshire’s General Court in 1828. Pierce served in the State House from 1829 to 1833 and also served as Speaker from 1832 to 1833. Then in 1832, Franklin was elected Democrat to the 23rd and 24th of Congress from March 4, 1833, to March 4, 1837. At 27 years of age, Pierce was the youngest U.S. Representative at that time. In 1836, he was elected by the New Hampshire General Court as a Democrat to the U.S Senate, serving from March 4, 1837, to February 28, 1842. After serving in the Senate, Pierce went back to Concord to resume law practice. He then was U.S. Attorney from 1845 to 1847 for the district of New Hampshire, though he declined Democratic nomination for Governor of New Hampshire and refused the appointment as General of the United States.

On November 19, 1834, Franklin Pierce married Jane Means Appleton. They had three children, all of which died in childhood. Franklin Pierce Jr. died only three days after birth; and Frank Robert Pierce died at four years of age from epidemic typhus; just two months before his inauguration, Franklin Pierce and his family boarded a train bound for Boston. Shortly after, their derailed car started to roll down an embankment. Franklin and Jane survived, merely shaken up, but saw their 11 year old son Benjamin get crushed to death. Jane Pierce thought the train accident was a divine punishment for Franklin’s pursuit and acceptance of high office.

Franklin Pierce served as President from March 4, 1853, to March 4, 1857. He was the first President to “affirm” his oath of office instead of swearing it (the only other president to do this has been Herbert Hoover). So rather than placing his hands on the Bible, Franklin Pierce placed his hands on a law book. He was also the first President to recite his inaugural address from memory. Surprisingly, Franklin Pierce selected men of different opinions for his Cabinet. Many people expected a diverse group to break up quickly, but the Cabinet stayed together for Pierce’s four-year term.

Franklin Pierce’s toughest challenge as President was the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act in 1854. This act repealed the Missouri Compromise and, in the west, reopened the question of slavery. These and more triggered a series of events known as "Bleeding Kansas". Pro-slavery Border Ruffians, mostly from Missouri, illegally voted in a government. Pierce recognized this and called the Topeka Constitution, set up by Free-Staters, as an act of “rebellion.” Overall, Franklin Pierce is ranked among the least effective Presidents of the United States, as he was unable to steer a steady, prudent course.

After losing the Democratic reelection in 1856, Pierce retired with his wife. Franklin Pierce died in Concord, New Hampshire on October 8th, 1869, 4:49am, at the age of 64. He was buried in Old North Cemetery in Concord.



</doc>
<doc id="16844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16844" title="Ottoman Empire">
Ottoman Empire

The Ottoman Empire lasted from 1299 to 1923. It was centered around the Middle East and western portions of lands around the Mediterranean Sea. The empire was created by Ottoman Turks and was most powerful around 1400 to 1600, when it controlled trade and politics in Europe, Asia, and Africa. The empire's capitals were firstly Bursa, secondly Edirne and finally Istanbul. In later years, the Ottoman Empire began to weaken and became known as "the sick man of Europe" in the latter part of the 19th century.

In the early years of the empire, shahzadahs, who were the sons of the Sultan, used to be sent to Sanjaks (different parts of the empire) to have experience and to later govern. This was because they were candidates for the Sultanate and Khaliphate. After Ahmed this system changed. In the new system the Sultan would keep all his male relatives locked in a small apartment called a "kafes" where they would never be able to see the outside world, and would therefore be unable to take power from him. Often, a new Sultan would simply have his male relatives killed, a simpler solution since it removed competition for the Sultanate and prevented rebel movements. However, the women in his harem often sought greater status and influence, and the Sultan's mother might become the most powerful political force in the Empire, because each mother in the harem would try to make her own son the next Sultan, since they knew he would probably be killed if he was not. The Sultans quickly lost their ability to govern far-away territories well, and all the peoples living in the Empire were soon governing themselves under their own laws. By its end, the Ottoman Empire grew so worn out and corrupt that it was ready to collapse.



</doc>
<doc id="16846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16846" title="Strategic bombing">
Strategic bombing

Strategic bombing is a military strategy used to destroy the enemies' economic ability to fight a war. It is an attack from the air. Strategic bombing missions usually attack targets such as factories, railroads, oil refineries and cities. Tactical bombing missions would attack targets such as military bases, command and control facilities, airfields, and ammunition dumps.

The United States Air Force (USAAF) over the years have used bombers as strategic bombers role. Strategic bombers are bombers used to bomb cities and camps used by the opposing force.

Strategic bombing was an idea first thought up in World War I. It was used by the German Air Force. They bombed London using Gotha bombers. Later Gothas could carry over a ton of bombs. The idea first came to the United States by Colonel Billy Mitchell. He had new ideas on the strategic, and tactical air war. The first USAAF strategic bomber was the B-17 Flying Fortress.e.

After World War II, the Strategic Air Command became located at Omaha, Nebraska, at Offutt Air Force Base. There was a full cadre of generals located there who participated in many of the missions of the "Looking Glass", a KC-135 air tanker which was gutted and refitted with state of the art electronics which would take over in case the president was killed in wartime. The plane had several generals on board to assume wartime duties. The "red telephone" was an instant connection to the president at the white house. The plane flew 24/7, three planes took off a day in overlapping flights to provide this level of coverage. Since the end of the cold war, the president/congress/senate decommissioned this flight, however, the Strategic Air Command still maintains the main facility at Offutt AFB (this is where President Bush flew to when the Twin Towers were bombed on 9-11-01 to set up his command center.)


</doc>
<doc id="16847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16847" title="Edsel">
Edsel

Edsel was a make of car and a new car making division introduced by the Ford Motor Company on September 4, 1957. The company called that day, "E-Day." It was named after Henry Ford's son, Edsel Ford. The Edsel was also one of the biggest failures in history. It was sold for only three years, ending in 1960.

Ford planned to move their Lincoln brand upmarket and put another make in beneath it. Design of the Edsel began in 1955 under the name "E-car" which stood for "Experimental car". 

Edsel produced four models their first year, the 1958 model year. These were the large Citation and Corsair, and the smaller, easier to buy Pacer and Ranger.

These were the different body styles offered:





The Bermuda, Villager and Roundup were station wagons based on the two smaller Edsel models. They were basically the same as the 1957-59 Ford wagons.

63,110 Edsels sold the first year, which was the second largest car launch for any brand in history. Only the Plymouth introduction in 1928 was better, but still not as many cars as Ford hoped would sell.

There were only 2 Edsels in 1959, the Ranger and the Corsair. Only 44,891 cars were sold in that model year. 

Only the Ranger and Villager were produced in 1960. These were almost exactly like the 1960 Ford cars. Only 2848 cars were built before the Edsel Motor Division was closed on November 19, 1959.

Edsel's failure is very famous because it failed after Ford put US$400,000,000 into its development. It had many innovations which are still in use today, including brakes which adjusted themselves and a very powerful V-8 engine called the "FE-series" that would be used for many years in later Fords. Also, the car did not live up to all of the promises in the advertisements before it was released. Some people blamed the look of the new car because of its very unusual grille shaped like a horse's collar. One famous quote from an auto writer said that the Edsel looked like "an Oldsmobile sucking on a lemon." Quality of the Edsel was a problem as well. Even the name was a problem to some buyers. Worst of all, the U.S. was entering a period of recession. All car sales were down. 

Many drivers did not like having the automatic transmission as push-buttons mounted on the steering wheel hub. Since this was the place the horn was normally found, drivers ended up shifting gears instead of honking the horn. 

The planned 1960 Edsel Comet compact car was relabeled Mercury Comet and sold more cars in its first year than all models of Edsel ever produced. 

Fewer than 6,000 Edsels survive and today they are considered collectors’ items, with convertibles sometimes selling for over US$20,000 if in good condition. As usual with classics, hardtop models are worth considerably less, station wagons less than that, and sedans least of all. It is possible to get a very good 1959 sedan for about US$3000–$3500.



</doc>
<doc id="16851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16851" title="1000">
1000

1000 (M) of the Gregorian Calendar was the last year of the 10th century as well as the last year of the first millennium of the Christian era ending on December 31. According to the then used Julian Calendar, AD 1000 was a leap year starting on Monday. In the Gregorian Calendar (not invented at the time) the year would have been a common year starting on Wednesday.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).



</doc>
<doc id="16852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16852" title="1830">
1830




</doc>
<doc id="16858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16858" title="Category:1804 births">
Category:1804 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1804.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="16868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16868" title="Chino Hills, California">
Chino Hills, California

Chino Hills is a city in Southern California, United States, in the bottom-left most corner of San Bernardino County.
Almost 75,000 people live in the city of Chino Hills, California. It is named for the hills that cover most of the city.


</doc>
<doc id="16872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16872" title="Learning">
Learning

To learn is to find and keep information in your brain (or mind).



</doc>
<doc id="16877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16877" title="Acrocorinth">
Acrocorinth

Acrocorinth is the acropolis of the Greek city Corinth.



</doc>
<doc id="16878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16878" title="Category:Possible copyright violations">
Category:Possible copyright violations


</doc>
<doc id="16879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16879" title="Category:1000">
Category:1000


</doc>
<doc id="16880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16880" title="Category:1000s">
Category:1000s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1000s which begins in the year 1000 and ends in the year 1009.

Note that 1000 is actually the last year of the 10th century; 1001 is the actual first year of the 11th century.


</doc>
<doc id="16883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16883" title="Category:1336">
Category:1336


</doc>
<doc id="16884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16884" title="Category:1330s births">
Category:1330s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1330s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="16885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16885" title="Category:1330s">
Category:1330s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1330s which begins in the year 1330 and ends in the year 1339.


</doc>
<doc id="16913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16913" title="Neutron">
Neutron

Neutrons, along with protons and electrons, make up an atom. Neutrons are found in the nucleus of an atom, along with protons. Unlike protons, which have a positive charge, or electrons, which have a negative charge, neutrons have no charge or neutral charge.

Neutrons were discovered by the British scientist James Chadwick, in 1932. Atoms were fired at a thin pane of beryllium. Particles emerged and had no charge, and he named these neutrons.

Neutrons have a mass of 1.675 × 10g, which is a little heavier than the proton. Neutrons are 1839 times heavier than electrons. 
Neutrons are made up of two down quarks and one up quark. Quarks are held together by gluons.

Like all Hadrons, Neutrons are made of quarks. A neutron is made of two down quarks and one up quark. One up quark has a charge of +2/3, and the two down quarks each have a charge of -1/3. The fact that these charges cancel out is why Neutrons have a neutral (0) charge.

Neutrons can be found in almost all atoms alongside protons and electrons. The number of them in the atom does not change the element, unlike protons. However, it "does" change some characteristics of the element or ore. The number of them in an atom determines what isotope this compound is. 



</doc>
<doc id="16927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16927" title="LiveJournal">
LiveJournal

LiveJournal (often called LJ) is a website on which Internet users can keep a blog. It is also the name of the software that was designed to run it. LiveJournal is different from some other blogging sites, because a user can interact with friends in certain ways that are unique to the website (such as instant messaging in LJ Talk). It is based in San Francisco, California.

LiveJournal was started in 1999 by Brad Fitzpatrick as a way of keeping his high school friends updated on his activities. In January 2005, a blogging software company called Six Apart bought Danga Interactive, the company that was owned by Fitzpatrick, which operates LiveJournal.

LiveJournal has a service called a "friends list", which makes the site a way to socialise with friends and other people, even though it is a blog service too.

LiveJournal lets users change their accounts in several ways. A programming language called S2 can help users make their blogs look different. Users may upload small pictures (maximum 100 by 100 pixels) called "userpics", which appear next to the username. People can pay to get more features, like extra userpics, the ability to record their voices into a post ("voice posts"), the ability to make polls, and better layouts.

Each user also has a "User Info" page, which may contain contact information, a biography of the user, and lists of friends, interests, communities, and even schools the user had attended.

Currently LiveJournal has five kinds of accounts. About 95% of all LiveJournal users use a non-paid account ("plus" accounts). People can pay for their accounts ("Paid" accounts) and get more features, or they can get a "sponsored" account, which is free and has more features, but has advertisements. "Early adopters" are the accounts of people who signed up for LiveJournal back in 1999 or 2000. There are also permanent accounts. Most people can not get a permanent account. LiveJournal only sells them sometimes, and they may not sell them again.


</doc>
<doc id="16928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16928" title="RNA">
RNA

RNA is an acronym for ribonucleic acid, a nucleic acid. Many different kinds are now known.

The main function of RNA is to carry information of amino acid sequence from the genes to where proteins are assembled on ribosomes in the cytoplasm. This is done by messenger RNA (mRNA). The sequence of base pairs is transcribed from DNA by an enzyme called RNA polymerase and is reformed in the mRNA. Then the mRNA moves from the nucleus to the ribosomes in the cytoplasm to form proteins. The mRNA translates the sequence of base pairs into a sequence of amino acids to form proteins. This process is called translation.

RNA is physically different to DNA: DNA contains two intercoiled strands whereas mRNA only contains one single strand. RNA also contains different bases to DNA. It contains:

(A) Adenine
(G) Guanine
(C) Cytosine
(U) Uracil

The first three bases are also found in DNA, but Uracil replaces Thymine as a complement to Adenine.

RNA also contains ribose as opposed to deoxyribose found in DNA. These differences result in RNA being chemically more reactive than DNA. This makes it the more suitable molecule to take part in cell reactions.

RNA is the carrier of genetic information in certain viruses, especially the retroviruses like the HIV virus. This is the only exception to the general rule that DNA is the hereditary substance.

mRNA, or messenger RNA is the complement strand of DNA. A single strand of DNA is a blueprint for mRNA which is transcribed from that DNA strand. DNA does not leave the nucleus for various reasons. DNA is a "very" long molecule, and is bound in with proteins, called histones, in the chromosomes. mRNA, on the other hand is able to move and to react with various cell enzymes. Once transcribed, the mRNA leaves the nucleus and is attached to tRNA which attached to the ribosomes.

Two kinds of non-coding RNAs help in the process of building proteins in the cell. They transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA).

Transfer RNA (tRNA) is a short molecule of about 80 nucleotides which carries a specific amino acid to the polypeptide chain at a ribosome. Each one (there is a different tRNA for each amino acid) has a site for the amino acid to attach, and an anti-codon to match the codon on the mRNA. For example, codons UUU or UUC code for the amino acid Phenylalanine.

Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is the catalytic component of the ribosomes. Eukaryotic ribosomes contain four different rRNA molecules: 18S, 5.8S, 28S and 5S rRNA. Three of the rRNA molecules are synthesized in the nucleolus, and one is synthesized elsewhere. In the cytoplasm, ribosomal RNA and protein combine to form a nucleoprotein called a ribosome. The ribosome binds mRNA and carries out protein synthesis. Several ribosomes may be attached to a single mRNA at any time. rRNA is extremely abundant and makes up 80% of the 10 mg/ml RNA found in a typical eukaryotic cytoplasm.

There are a number of RNAs which regulate genes, that is, they regulate the rate at which genes are transcribed or translated. 

Micro RNAs (miRNA) act by joining an enzyme and blocking mRNA, or speeding its breakdown. This is called RNA interference.

Small interfering RNAs (sometimes called silencing RNAs) interfere with the expression of a specific gene. They are quite small (20/25 nucleotides) double-stranded molecules. Their discovery has caused a surge in biomedical research and drug development.


</doc>
<doc id="16938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16938" title="Template:User es">
Template:User es


</doc>
<doc id="16946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16946" title="Category:Western Sahara">
Category:Western Sahara


</doc>
<doc id="16947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16947" title="Figure skating">
Figure skating

Figure skating is both an art and a sport, in which people skate around on ice, doing jumps and spins. It is done at the Winter Olympics, and it has its own world championships.

In figure skating, sometimes women or men skate alone, or they skate in couples. Couples dancing includes "pairs" and ice dancing. Pairs skating has jumps, and sometimes the man lifts the woman in the air. These things are not done in ice dancing. In ice dancing, the woman must be held in the man's arm. Another kind of figure skating is synchronized skating done in groups.

The first ever figure skating club was started in 1742 in Edinburgh, Scotland. World Championships began in 1896 (the first in St. Petersburg, Russia).

Some well-known figure skaters:

Pairs:

Ice dance:




</doc>
<doc id="16948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16948" title="Gabriel">
Gabriel

Gabriel (meaning "God is my strength" or "man of God"), in the Bible and Qur'an, is an angel, specifically an archangel (arch means "highest" or "chief"). 

Gabriel is first mentioned in the Bible, in the book of Daniel, when he appeared to Daniel. In the New Testament, he delivered a message from God to Zacharias, and most famously, to Mary to announce the coming birth of Jesus.

Gabriel is a messenger from Allah. He is the angel who tells Mary that she will have a baby boy. Gabriel is one of four names of angels in holy Qur'an. He revealed the Qur'an to the prophet Muhammad.

Gabriel has sometimes been used as a given name in English-speaking counties because of a Continental European influence. Cognates: Hungarian: Gábor. Italian: Gabriele. Finnish: Kaapo.
The feminine form of the name Gabriel is Gabrielle.


</doc>
<doc id="16949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16949" title="Post office">
Post office

A post office is a place that is made available by the postal system to post, receive, sort, handle, and to move or deliver mail. You can buy postage stamps to mail things like packages or letters and drop them off there, and they will bring it to where you want it to go.



</doc>
<doc id="16950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16950" title="Lahn">
Lahn

The Lahn is a river in Hesse, Germany with a length of .

Its source is in the Rothaargebirge.

It flows through the towns Marburg, Gießen, Wetzlar, and Limburg an der Lahn.

It joins the River Rhine at Lahnstein, near Koblenz.


</doc>
<doc id="16961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16961" title="Rottweiler">
Rottweiler

Rottweilers are large muscular dogs. Their fur is mostly black, with brown on the legs and face. They are excellent guard dogs, as well as herding, and companion dogs.

Dogs are pack animals. When they feel threatened, they will defend themselves. They will also protect other members of the pack, to a certain extent. How they defend themselves, and how close they feel to the rest of the pack (their owners) depends on the dog race, and on the how they were raised. Since dogs judge dangerous situations differently, they should not be left unattended near a place where people are arguing. They may also judge "unattended" moves of a child as an attack. Therefore dogs should not be left alone near children.

When the Rottweilers' owners are not advanced, problems arise. Sometimes humans, mostly children are attacked by dogs. These attacks are a result of unresponsible owners. Rottweilers are very intelligent and need equally smart handlers to raise them. 

In some areas, breeding certain dogs has been restricted or forbidden.


</doc>
<doc id="16964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16964" title="Anne Murray">
Anne Murray

Morna Anne Murrary (born June 20, 1945) is a Canadian Pop and Country musician. She was born in Nova Scotia. She was a teacher, but also sang and made records. One of her records, "Snowbird", became a hit late in 1970. The song was not about Christmas, but was popular during the Christmas season. The record became a perennial through association with the holiday.

Murray later had hits with remakes of Beatles ("I'm Happy Just to Dance With You") and Monkees songs ("Daydream Believer"). She also recorded "Shadows in the Moonlight" and "A Little Good News", which became popular.


</doc>
<doc id="16966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16966" title="Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets">
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets by J. K. Rowling is the second novel (published in 1998) in the Harry Potter series of books. A movie of the book was released in 2002. 

This article tells about the beginning of the story. It does not contain spoilers of the main adventures. 

In "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" JK Rowling has already set the scene for the "Harry Potter series". But, just to make sure that the reader understands, Rowling gives brief explanations of the important things that happened in the first book. The reader is told that Harry Potter is an orphan, that he is a wizard and that he lives with an aunt, uncle and cousin who do not love him. The reader also discovers that "magic people" call non-magic people "Muggles". Harry's Aunt Petunia, Uncle Vernon and Cousin Dudley are "Muggles". So are the parents of one of Harry's best friends, Hermione Granger, a very clever young witch. 

Near the beginning of the book, Rowling introduces the reader to a famous old wizarding family, the Weasleys. Harry, who has never had brothers and sisters, is a little bit overwhelmed when he finds himself staying in the noisy messy Weasley household, called "The Burrow". His good friend Ron is the youngest of six boys and has a younger sister, Ginny, who has a crush on Harry, and who becomes important in this story. 

Mr Weasley works for the Department of Magic. He is fascinated by "Muggles" and the way that they manage to live without magic. Mr Weasley has never used a telephone or a computer. It is his job to prevent wizards from illegally magicking Muggle objects. But he does not always do his job in the way the Department would like. In fact, he drives his family to catch the train in a magical Ford Anglia. A feature of the books is the school train called the "Hogwarts Express" which leaves Paddington Station in London from Platform 9 3/4. But because of strange happenings, Harry and Ron miss the train to school. 

In the first book of the series, the reader discovers that there are many magical beings in the world, such as giants, trolls, centaurs and unicorns. In the second book, Rowling introduces another type of magical being, the "House Elf". A "House Elf" is bound to a family, whom it must serve. The House Elves are very honourable. Usually they would never do anything to upset their owners. But they have minds of their own. Early in the book, a House Elf called Dobby comes to Harry and tells him that he must not go back to "Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry". Dobby's behaviour is so very weird that Harry does not know what to think. Because Dobby comes from a different race to the human Magicians, he lives by a different set of rules. 
Dobby is another important character in this book. 

Harry and Ron go to school, very late, and in disgrace. When they arrive, they have a very nasty adventure with another sort of magical thing, an enchanted tree. This enchanted tree is to be very important in a later story. Joanne Rowling has a clever way of introducing the reader in one book to an idea, or a magic spell, or a person or object, that will later be very important in another book. The reader is immediately reminded of what a horrible nasty person Professor Snape, the Master of Potions is. He is so nasty to Ron and Harry that Professor McGonagal, who is the head of their House, has to tell him to mind his own business. Through the stories, Professor Snape often has to be reminded not to stick his long nose into things that are not his business. The reader never knows whether he can be trusted or not. Professor Dumbledore, the Headmaster trusts him, but Dumbledore trusts almost everybody. 

Harry has not been back at school very long before it becomes clear that everybody inside the school is in danger. One by one students, and even the caretaker's cat, are affected by a strange and frightening spell. As everyone becomes more and more frightened, they start to be suspicious of other people. 

In the first book, Harry has a serious problem of not telling the truth, and not trusting Professor Dumbledore with the things that he discovers. In this book, when Harry starts hearing a strange voice, he should go to the Professor straight away, but he does not. He has not yet learnt to be trusting. Luckily, he has listened to a really good bit of advice from the old Professor, that help will come to him, if he asks for it.





</doc>
<doc id="16971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16971" title="Personal computer">
Personal computer

A personal computer (PC) is a small computer made more common by a system developed by a company called IBM. PCs usually operate using a system of software known as Windows, by a company called Microsoft Corporation. PCs made by a company called Apple Inc. operate using their own system of software called Mac OS X. 
There is also a free set of software for everybody to get, called Linux. Most people use Ubuntu-Linux, because it is easy to use.

A computer user usually works with a mouse and keyboard to interact with the computer (giving it input), and looks at information (output) through a monitor, often a flat LCD screen or a CRT (a cathode ray tube) much like those used in most televisions.

PCs (and almost any other computer) usually use processors (which handle information given by the user) of brands such as Intel (makers of the Pentium processor) and AMD (or Advanced Micro Devices). Sometimes they may have two processors.

They have a memory, or RAM (random access memory), for moving information (or data) quickly to and from the processor, a hard drive for holding the data after a computer has been turned off, and usually a floppy drive and a CD-ROM drive for reading and writing data. Flash drives and DVD drives may also be used to read and store data. Computers often have a modem which sends and receives data over a phone line, or will use a network to do the same. Computers also have spaces (or ports) for serial devices such as joysticks, and a fast port called a USB port.

Computers may be used for work, including doing math quickly, or keeping records; communicating, with online message systems (such as AIM) and e-mail with people across the world; and fun, such as by playing computer games.


</doc>
<doc id="16972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16972" title="MS-DOS">
MS-DOS

MS-DOS is a computer operating system by Microsoft Corporation. It stands for "Microsoft Disk Operating System", and came from an operating system Microsoft bought called QDOS, or the "Quick and Dirty Operating System." It was popularly used in PCs before an operating system called Microsoft Windows came out and still is in some places today. OS/2 was originally made by a joint agreement with companies that are called Microsoft and IBM. OS/2 was maintained by IBM until 2006. OS/2 was supposed to replace MS-DOS, but that replacement did not succeed. MS-DOS was the framework behind Windows operating systems until an operating system known as Windows XP.

MS-DOS is a text-based operating system, meaning that a user works with a keyboard to input data and receives output in plain text. Later on, MS-DOS often had programs using a mouse and graphics to make work more simple and quick. (Some people still believe that working without graphics is really more efficient.) It is called a disk operating system because it was originally made to be loaded into a computer's memory with a floppy disk each time the computer is started (booted) up.


</doc>
<doc id="16973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16973" title="Search service">
Search service

A search service helps a computer user find information by looking through web pages for the text the user wants to find; the software that does this is known as a search engine. Google, Yahoo!, MSN Search, and Ask Jeeves are popular search services. Some older services include Webcrawler, Lycos, and Alta Vista.

A search service may also include a portal with news, games, and more information besides a search engine. Yahoo! has a popular portal, and MSN Search is part of the MSN portal, while Google has a simple design on its front page.

Search services usually work without charging money for finding sites, and are often supported with text or banner advertisements.


</doc>
<doc id="16975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16975" title="DOS">
DOS

A disk operating system (DOS) will load from a floppy disk each time a computer starts, and will access that disk for software to complete operations. MS-DOS is probably the most well-known DOS, and was purchased by Microsoft Corporation from a system known as QDOS. As operating systems became more complicated and took up more space, they began to be permanently installed on hard drives, which are faster and more reliable than floppy disks, and can store more data. This was encouraged by a steady drop in hard drive prices.

"DOS"es are usually text-based and without graphics to save space on a floppy disk. Although DOSes have mostly been replaced by Windows, Macintosh, and Linux systems, among others (sporting a GUI, or Graphical User Interface), they are still in use in some places, mostly on older computers. This may be because of a lack of money, the need to use software which still runs on a DOS system, nostalgia for an older operating system, or the belief that text-based systems are more efficient.

Although GUIs are more popular, in times of emergency or when one needs to install special software, a boot disk allows a user to start his computer into a DOS.


</doc>
<doc id="16976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16976" title="Internet service provider">
Internet service provider

An Internet service provider, or ISPs, usually for a monthly subscription fee, will allow a user to connect to the Internet. Some ISPs directly put their users on the Internet, while others will send a connection through its or a different company's servers, which is slightly slower.

ISPs provide different services. Usually they give space for electronic mail (e-mail) and a website. The type of Internet service is different, too, and may be dial-up, DSL, through fiber-optic wires, through a cable TV connection, wireless, or even satellite, usually in remote areas. Dial-up is the slowest service, while a direct fiber-optic connection is usually the fastest.

All Internet connections require a modem, which takes in and sends out data by converting binary data to an audio sound (in dial-up), into pulses of light (in fiber-optic), and in other ways. Some modems are as small as a credit card (and are usually for a laptop computer); some are put directly inside a computer; and some are in boxes outside the computer.

Some mobile phones can access the Internet.


</doc>
<doc id="16982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16982" title="National Women's Hockey League">
National Women's Hockey League

The National Women's Hockey League (NWHL) was an ice hockey league in Canada that was formed in 1999 and ended in 2007. The best female players in the world played in this league and in the Western Women's Hockey League. The mayor of Brampton, Ontario, Susan Fennell, was the NWHL's commissioner (president).





</doc>
<doc id="16983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16983" title="Western Women's Hockey League">
Western Women's Hockey League

The Western Women's Hockey League (WWHL) is an ice hockey league in North America. It was formed in 2004. The best female players in the world play in this league and in the National Women's Hockey League (NWHL). Some WWHL teams began in the NWHL.





</doc>
<doc id="16984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16984" title="Category:Ice hockey">
Category:Ice hockey

This is a category for various articles concerning the sport of ice hockey.


</doc>
<doc id="16986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16986" title="Yukon">
Yukon

The Yukon Territory is part of Canada, north of British Columbia, west of the Northwest Territories, and east of the American state of Alaska. Its population is 31,000. Most of the territory's people live in the capital of Whitehorse. Many of the people are native Canadians (First Nations).

The Yukon became a territory in 1898. It was part of the Northwest Territories from 1870 to 1898. Many people came to live in the Yukon during the Klondike Gold Rush of the 1890's.

Mt. Logan, at 5959 metres above sea level, is Canada's highest mountain.

The most important industry in the Yukon is mining.


</doc>
<doc id="16987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16987" title="Saanich">
Saanich

The District of Saanich is a region of Greater Victoria, British Columbia. It is north of the City of Victoria. Over 100,000 people live in Saanich. It is named after the Saanich First Nation.

Some communities within Saanich include Gordon Head, Royal Oak, Cordova Bay, Tillicum-Gorge, Cadboro Bay, Broadmead, Cedar Hill, and Ten-Mile Point.

Saanich Commonwealth Place, a recreation centre first used for swimming and diving at the 1994 Commonwealth Games, is located in Saanich.

Saanich celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2006.

The mayor of Saanich is Frank Leonard.


</doc>
<doc id="16988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16988" title="Emily Carr">
Emily Carr

Emily Carr (December 13, 1871 - March 2, 1945) was a Canadian artist and writer.

She was born in Victoria, British Columbia. She studied art in San Francisco and Paris, then came back to British Columbia. Carr painted scenes from nature and from First Nations culture. For example, she painted many Haida and Tlingit totem poles. The Tlingit people called her Klee Wyck, which means "the laughing one." She was influenced by French impressionism.

One of Carr's most famous paintings is "The Raven." Some of her books include "Klee Wyck" (which won the Governor General's Award) and "The Book of Small." Carr has a university named Emily Carr Institute of Art and Design and has two schools named after her. She is considered one of Canada's most famous artists.


</doc>
<doc id="16997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16997" title="Hatikvah">
Hatikvah

Hatikvah (also transliterated as Hatikva, or, without vowels, H-t-k-v (Hebrew: התקווה "The Hope"') is the national anthem of Israel. The song tells about the 2000-year-old hope of the Jewish people to return to their homeland, Israel. The song lyrics (words) were originally a 9-stanza poem called "תקותנו" (Tikvatenu), or "Our Hope". The first stanza was changed, and put to music. The music was written by Samuel Cohen, a Jewborn in Galicia, an area of Spain. It is in the minor key, which is usually not used for national anthems, because it sounds sad, but the words to the song tell that the song is supposed to be happy.

כל עוד בלבב פנימה
נפש יהודי הומיה,<br>
ולפאתי מזרח קדימה<br>
עין לציון צופיה -
עוד לא אבדה תקותנו,<br>
התקווה בת שנות אלפים,<br>
להיות עם חופשי בארצנו<br>
ארץ ציון וירושלים.

HATIKVA<br>
Kol ʻod balevav penimah<br>
Nefesh Yehudi Homiyah<br>
Ulfa'atey Mizrakh Kadimah<br>
ʻAyin letzion Tzofiyah<br>

ʻOd lo avdah tikvatenu<br>
Hatikvah bat shnot alpayim<br>
Lihyot am chofshi be'artzenu<br>
Eretz Tziyon v'Yerushalayim<br>
As long as in the heart, within, 
A Jewish soul still yearns, 
And onward, towards the ends of the east, 
An eye still looks toward Zion; 
Our hope is not yet lost, 
The hope of two thousand years, 
To be a free nation in our land, 
The land of Zion and Jerusalem. 



</doc>
<doc id="17007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17007" title="Virology">
Virology

Virology is the study of viruses such as the cold virus.

Virologists are responsible for many immunisations against common viruses like the common influenza (Flu) and things like chickenpox and smallpox.


</doc>
<doc id="17022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17022" title="MediaWiki:Sidebar">
MediaWiki:Sidebar


</doc>
<doc id="17024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17024" title="MediaWiki:Sitestatstext">
MediaWiki:Sitestatstext

There are $2 article pages in the Simple English Wikipedia at the moment. This number does not include redirects or articles without links.

There are $1 pages on Simple English Wikipedia. This number includes all pages on this wiki, including user pages, talk pages, help pages, and redirects.

There are $8 uploaded files.

$4 changes have been made since Simple English Wikipedia was started. That comes to $5 'changes per page' in the project.

The length is $7.

</doc>
<doc id="17032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17032" title="MediaWiki:Watchdetails">
MediaWiki:Watchdetails

You have on your watchlist (not counting talk pages). Click to see or change the complete list.

</doc>
<doc id="17035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17035" title="Stanley Cup">
Stanley Cup

The Stanley Cup is a trophy given to the champions of the National Hockey League (NHL) every year.

It was bought by Lord Stanley, the Governor General of Canada, in 1892, for $50. The first team to win it was the Montreal A.A.A. in 1893. Other teams could challenge for it. By 1915, it was awarded on a yearly basis.

The names of players and others such as coaches are put on the cup every year. As a result, the NHL had to make the cup bigger, by adding layers to the bottom. When the first cup was full of names, they made a copy of it, which is now what is awarded.

Today, there are 30 teams in the NHL. They play 82 games per year, and then 16 teams make the playoffs. These teams play best-of-seven series until there is only one champion.

The Montreal Canadiens have won the Stanley Cup 24 times, the most of any team. They also won the most in a row: five between 1955-56 and 1959-60.

Henri Richard of the Montreal Canadiens appears the most on the Stanley Cup, 11 times.

The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 2005: there was no NHL season because of a labour disagreement. It was not awarded in 1919, either, because of the influenza epidemic.



</doc>
<doc id="17036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17036" title="MediaWiki:Edittools">
MediaWiki:Edittools


</doc>
<doc id="17037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17037" title="Militarization">
Militarization

Militarization is the general movement of a country to focus its production on war. This includes production of war machines such as tanks and aircraft as well as arms for infantry. There is a focus of the population to produce these goods. An example of this is seen when females during the Second World War would work in factories to produce planes and tanks. Militarism is simply a country that is focusing on increasing their military might through production and concentration of capital resources. 
This movement can be started in either a country at war already or in a country that is newly entering a conflict. Example of this include the one stated earlier, since the United States entered the Second World War they shifted from supplying Britain to producing their own weapons. When Germany was about to begin their invasion of Europe they started militarization. They broke the Treaty and began to produce weapons. Their focus changed from economic progress to fascism and militarism.


</doc>
<doc id="17038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17038" title="Wikipedia:Aids for Writing Simple English">
Wikipedia:Aids for Writing Simple English

Here are a few electronic aids for writing Simple English.

OpenOffice.org (OOo) is a program that does everything that 
Microsoft Office Professional does -- and it is a free download (115MB) or is available on CD. The Basic English Institute has a spell checking wordlist download

The B.E.I now offers a Simple English spell checking wordlist for Open Office software suite. Each non-Simple English word is underlined in red. 
Readme

WriteIdea (bad link, needs update) is an Open Source writers' tool for simplifying English text. There is a java based version you can download, and a web-based version (bad link, needs update) you can use online.

Internet Dictionary Project software called IDP Companion
translates between several languages. Replace one of the minor
languages with the Basic English definitions from the Institute download page. Enter the "misspelled" word and copy and paste the desired Basic replacement.

A beta release of a thesaurus-like drop-down list for translation of the non-Simple English words into Basic English is also available. Readme . Help from a Unix programmer to compile an update the Beta of the thesaurus would be appreciated.

An opensource web app specifically for simple.wikipedia that translates -to some degree- regular English to simple English automatically, using a different, editable, and context-sensitive . Leaves links, quotes, references and headings untranslated. Can pull random en.wikipedia articles, in an effort streamline simple.wiki development using en.wikipedia as a source.


</doc>
<doc id="17039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17039" title="Template:Geolinks-US-cityscale">
Template:Geolinks-US-cityscale


</doc>
<doc id="17042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17042" title="Category:1871 births">
Category:1871 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1871.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="17052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17052" title="Tour de France">
Tour de France

The Tour de France () is a well known bicycle race. It is held in France, every summer. In recent years it has ended with a race through the centre of Paris, past the Eiffel tower. It is among the most famous, and has some of the highest prizes, of bike races in Europe. Recently, it was in the media, because some athletes were doping. The race goes around France, but can have some parts in other countries like England, Belgium, or Spain as they race in the Pyrenees mountains.

The tour lasts about three weeks. At the end of each day's race the leader is given a yellow shirt, the best sprinter is given a green shirt, and the best rider in the mountain races is given a polka dot jersey. He is sometimes called the King of the Mountains. The best young rider, who must be under 25, gets a white jersey. The winner is the one who finishes the race to Paris in the fastest time. There is a lot of prize money for the teams of the winners of the Tour, but the winner of each day's race also gets prize money.



</doc>
<doc id="17056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17056" title="Joseph Smith, Jr.">
Joseph Smith, Jr.

Joseph Smith, Jr. (December 23, 1805 – June 27, 1844) was an American religious leader. He started the Latter Day Saint movement (also called Mormonism). Latter Day Saints think that Smith was a prophet.

According to Joseph Smith's own story, when he was 17 years old, he was visited by an angel named Moroni. Moroni told him about a really old book written upon Golden Plates. It was buried in a hill. A few years later, Joseph says that he received those plates and translated them into the book that today is call The Book of Mormon. He instructed a man named Martin Harris to write down the words that he read out of his hat. He claimed that he would put seer stones into the hat with the golden plates and the letters would pop out at him and change to English. Harris took home the pages and told his wife all about what had happened. His wife did not believe him and told him to test Joseph the next day. Marvin went to Joseph the next day and said he had lost the pages but would be willing to recopy them. This way if Joseph was lying, the new book would be different. Joseph said he needed to pray alone. When he returned he informed Marvin that Gould was very angry at him and would never let him translate from that plate again. Instead he had to translate from another plate which nobody but Joseph was allowed to see. Joseph claimed that this one had the same story but was worded different. From this translation, the Book of Mormon was written.

On April 6, 1830, he started The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is often called the Mormon Church. Joseph Smith said that God wanted him to be a prophet and teach other people the things that he learned from God. Thousands of people joined this church, which still exists today.

Joseph Smith taught some things that some people did not like. He said that other churches were only partly true. He also said that men could have more than one wife. 

On June 7, 1844, some people who were upset with Smith published a newspaper in Nauvoo, Illinois called the "Nauvoo Expositor" This newspaper was filled with bad things being said about Smith, such as how some men claimed that Smith tried to take their wives. Smith had the printing press that made the newspaper destroyed, and had the city declare martial law. Smith was arrested for trying to start a riot, and was put in jail in Carthage, Illinois as he waited for his trial to start. On June 27, a group of angry men entered the jail and killed Smith and his brother, Hyrum.


</doc>
<doc id="17057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17057" title="Anastasia">
Anastasia

Anastasia or Anastacia is a woman's name that comes from the Koine Greek. It translates to "She who shall rise up again", but it is also used to mean "resurrection". The name, and its similar male name, Anastasius, were given to children born during Easter in the early years of Christianity.

The names "Stacey" (also spelled "Stacie", "Stacy" or "Stacee"), "Tasia", and "Stasia" are short forms for Anastasia.

It is also the name of several important women in history.


Anastasia is also the name of:


</doc>
<doc id="17058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17058" title="Band">
Band

In music, a band is a group of people (usually musicians) that get together to sing songs, or perform music. There are different kinds of bands that use different groups of instruments.



</doc>
<doc id="17060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17060" title="Demographics of Nicaragua">
Demographics of Nicaragua

About 86 per cent of Nicaraguans are European (but not limited to Spanish) or mixed European and of native ancestry. Most Nicaraguans have Spanish ancestors, but the 19th century saw several waves of immigration from other European countries (mainly from Germany). Most of the Mestizo and European population live in the western and central regions of the country and especially in the cities of Managua, Leon and Granada.

About 9 per cent of Nicaragua's population is black or afro-nicaragüense and they are concentrated in the country's eastern coast, and were brought mostly from Jamaica and Haiti when the region was a British protectorate. There is also a smaller number of Garifuna, a people of mixed African, Caribbean, Angolan, Congoan and Arawak descent.

Just 5 per cent of the population are of pure native descent. Nicaragua's pre-Columbian population consisted of the Nahuatl-speaking Nicarao people of the west, and six ethnic groups including the Miskitos, Ramas and Sumos in the Caribbean region. While very few pure-blooded Nicarao people still exist, the Caribbean peoples have remained distinct. In the mid-1980s, the government divided the eastern half of the country - the former department of Zelaya - into two autonomous regions and granted the African and indigenous people of the region limited self-rule.

There is also a small Middle Eastern-Nicaraguan community of Syrian, Armenian, Palestinian and Lebanese people in Nicaragua with a total population of about 30,000, and an East Asian community of Japanese, Taiwanese and Chinese people of almost 8,000. The minorities speak Spanish and maintain their ancestral languages as well.

Spanish is spoken by about 90% of Nicaraguans; the Nicaraguan dialect has many similarities to Galician, and also has similarities to Argentinian Spanish which uses "vos" instead of "tu", along with the "vos" conjugation. The black population of the east coast region has English as its first language. Several indigenous peoples of the east still use their original languages.

Roman Catholicism is the major religion, but evangelical Protestant groups have grown recently, and there are strong Anglican and Moravian communities on the Caribbean coast. 0.1% of Nicaragua is Buddhist and the religion has been growing in recent years.

Ninety per cent of Nicaraguans live in the Pacific and central lowlands and the adjacent interior highlands. The population is 54% urban.



</doc>
<doc id="17070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17070" title="Lou Christie">
Lou Christie

Lou Christie (February 19, 1943-) is an American singer. He was popular in the 1960s.


</doc>
<doc id="17071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17071" title="Carlo Azeglio Ciampi">
Carlo Azeglio Ciampi

Carlo Azeglio Ciampi was born in 1920 in Livorno, Italy.

He was 10th President of the Italian Republic, his work started in 1999 and ended in 2006. He was followed by Giorgio Napolitano

He is appreciated very much by the Italian people because of his equality and rightness.

Since 1979 he had been President of the Bank of Italy, but his task ended in 1993.

He was also Prime Minister of the Italian government, but his task lasted just a few months, because it was just a technical government,which purpose was to lead the country in a moment of difficulty.


</doc>
<doc id="17073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17073" title="Barry Sadler">
Barry Sadler

Barry Sadler (November 1, 1940 – September 8, 1989) was an American soldier, songwriter and author. In 1966, He recorded a song called "The Ballad of The Green Berets". It was the biggest selling song that year. He later helped write the "Casca" series of books. He died after being shot in the head.


</doc>
<doc id="17074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17074" title="Nancy Sinatra">
Nancy Sinatra

Nancy Sinatra is an American singer. She was born June 8, 1940, in Jersey City, New Jersey. She is the daughter of Frank Sinatra. She is best known for the song "These Boots Were Made For Walking". 


</doc>
<doc id="17075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17075" title="The Rascals">
The Rascals

The Rascals (formerly known as The Young Rascals) were an American pop-soul group popular in the 1960s.


</doc>
<doc id="17077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17077" title="Percy Sledge">
Percy Sledge

Percy Sledge is an American R&B singer. He was born November 25, 1940, in Leighton Alabama. He is best known for his song "When a Man Loves a Woman".


</doc>
<doc id="17078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17078" title="Tommy Roe">
Tommy Roe

Tommy Roe (born May 9, 1942) is an American singer. He was popular in the 1960s. His best known songs were "Sweet Pea" and "Dizzy".


</doc>
<doc id="17079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17079" title="The Box Tops">
The Box Tops

The Box Tops were a 1960s pop music group, from Memphis, Tennessee. Their best known songs are "The Letter" and "Cry Like A Baby".


</doc>
<doc id="17080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17080" title="Lulu">
Lulu

Lulu can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="17081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17081" title="James K. Polk">
James K. Polk

James Knox Polk (November 2, 1795–June 15, 1849) was the eleventh President of the United States, his term was from March 4, 1845 to March 3, 1849.

Polk was born in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. He went to the University of North Carolina.

Polk is respected by historians because he made four promises during his presidential campaign and accomplished all of them. 

He promised to lower tariffs (taxes on foreign trades) and he did that.

He promised to make the U.S. government its own bank so it did not have to put its money in other banks. He did that.

He intimidated England into allowing the United States to have the Oregon Territory (the north-western United States) just like he promised.

He promised he would make Texas part of the United States. He declared war on Mexico and led the country through the Mexican-American War.

During his presidency, the U.S. gained a lot of land.



</doc>
<doc id="17083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17083" title="Al Gore">
Al Gore

Albert Arnold "Al" Gore, Jr. (born March 31, 1948 in Washington, D.C.) is a former American politician. Gore won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.

His father, Albert Gore, Sr. was a Senator for Tennessee. Gore was brought up in both Washington and Tennessee.

Gore was a Representative from 1977 to 1985 and a Senator from 1985 to 1993. In 1988 he ran for President for first time, but lost to Michael Dukakis in the Democratic primary. In 1993, he became Vice President to Bill Clinton. He ran for President in 2000, but lost to George W. Bush (many people still argue this). Even though he lost the race, Gore won in the popular vote by over 500,000 votes.

Gore is now a businessman, and runs and works for several companies, including Generation Investment Management, Google, Apple Computers, and TV channel Current. 

He is also a fighter for issues involving the environment. He released a movie in 2006 about global warming and climate change called "An Inconvenient Truth", which was based on a slide show he had given to millions of people. In 2007, Gore won the Nobel Peace Prize which he shared with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

He currently lives in Nashville and was married to Tipper for 40 years. In June 2010, they filed for divorce. The Gores have 4 children and 2 grandchildren.


</doc>
<doc id="17085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17085" title="Pumpkinhead II">
Pumpkinhead II

Pumpkinhead II: Blood Wings is a 1994 movie about a young boy named Tommy, a misfit and deformed teenager who had no friends.

One day, Tommy is killed by a gang of bad boys from his home town for no reason at all. Miss Ossie was an old lady who used to take care of Tommy from the very beginning. When the young boy is killed, she decides to bury him in her backyard as a way to keep him around anyway. Several years later in the 1990s, a bunch of teenagers go to Miss Ossie's house and they do something that brings Tommy back to life. Some kind of spelling that resurrect the deformed kid. For some reason, Tommy comes back as an angry and even more grotesque creature who wants to take revenge on the people who killed him in the past and innocent people as well.


</doc>
<doc id="17087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17087" title="Category:1795 births">
Category:1795 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1795.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="17088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17088" title="Category:1795">
Category:1795


</doc>
<doc id="17089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17089" title="Category:Movies by year">
Category:Movies by year

These categories lists the titles of movies originally released (put into theaters or simply starting to be sold) organized by year.


</doc>
<doc id="17091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17091" title="Category:1971 movies">
Category:1971 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1971.


</doc>
<doc id="17092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17092" title="THX 1138">
THX 1138

THX 1138 is a 1971 movie and was the first feature movie directed by George Lucas and excutive produced by Francis Ford Coppola and Coppola's production company American Zoetrope. It was based on a short movie Lucas made in college in 1967 called "Electric Labyrinth THX 1138 4EB".


</doc>
<doc id="17093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17093" title="Category:2005 movies">
Category:2005 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="17094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17094" title="Category:1980 movies">
Category:1980 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1980.


</doc>
<doc id="17095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17095" title="Category:1988 movies">
Category:1988 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1988.


</doc>
<doc id="17096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17096" title="Category:1993 movies">
Category:1993 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1993.


</doc>
<doc id="17097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17097" title="Category:1987 movies">
Category:1987 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1987.


</doc>
<doc id="17098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17098" title="Category:2001 movies">
Category:2001 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2001.


</doc>
<doc id="17099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17099" title="Bat">
Bat

Bats are mammals in the order Chiroptera. They are the only mammals that can fly. Other mammals like flying squirrels, or flying possum, can glide but not fly. 

Bats are the second largest order of mammals: there are more than 1,100 species of bats. This means that 20% of all known mammal species – one in five – are bats. 

About seventy percent of bats are insectivores. Most of the rest are frugivores (fruit bats). A few species suck blood (hematophagy), and some large ones are carnivorous. 


The phylogenetic relationships of the different groups of bats have been the subject of much debate. The traditional subdivision between Megachiroptera and Microchiroptera reflects the view that these groups of bats have evolved independently of each other for a long time, from a common ancestor which was already capable of flight. 

The hypothesis was that flight only evolved once in mammals. Most molecular biological evidence supports the view that bats form a single or monophyletic group.

An interesting thing about bats is that even though they can see with their eyes, they also use their ears to help them 'see' in the dark. Because of this, they can fly into very dark places where no eye could see. This way of seeing is called echolocation. Basically, echolocation means they use echoes to find where things are.

Echolocation is a lot like sonar that submarines and ships use to find things underwater. This is how it works: when a bat flies, it makes lots of sounds. "We" can not hear these sounds (they are too high-pitched), but bats can hear them. Scientists have instruments to measure them.

When a bat makes its noises, the sound waves move away from the bat. If they hit something, they bounce back to the bat (this bounce is called an "echo".) If nothing bounces back, the bat knows there it's okay to fly forward. They use this echolocation to catch their food, like butterflies or dragonflies. When a bat begins its nightly exploration, it usually sends out about 10 calls per second, but when they get an echo from something good to eat, the calls increase up to 200 calls per second. This increase of sounds is called a "feeding buzz". The bat makes a feeding buzz to "see" all the quick moves of the insect it is trying to catch.

Hearing and understanding the echoes that go back to the bat must take a really big amount of complicated structures in the bat's brain. Because of this, many scientists, doctors, and even the U.S. army study bats carefully. The U.S. army spends hundreds of thousands of dollars every year to study echolocation in bats.

Bats also have quite good eyesight and can see their prey and where they are flying if it's not too dark. There are lots of stories about bats flying right into people, but this is not true. They can see in the light very well, and in the dark, they can see much better than us because they are "nocturnal" - that is, they are active during the night, dusk, or dawn. So the expression "blind as a bat" is not very scientific. 

Bats fly with their hands. In fact, the order of bats, "Chiropetera", means 'hand-wings' in Latin.

Bat and bird wings are different. Birds do not have long finger-like bones in their wings like bats. Birds can not move each of their fingers, but bats can. Because of this, bats can change their direction while flying or fly in any pattern they want: this makes it easier to catch their food. A bat flies as if they are "swimming" through the air – pushing both wings down and backward.

A bird's wing has lots of feathers, while a bat's wing is mostly a stretchy, thin skin called a patagium. This thin membrane of skin stretches between each finger bone, connects to the bat's ankle, and connects to the bat's tail (if it has one). When a bat folds its wings next to its body, the skin as if it's getting smaller.

Bats have one claw (sometimes called a "bat thumb") that sticks out of the top of the wing. They use their "thumb" to climb and crawl. Interestingly, bats also use their thumbs to clean his ears out.

Bats' wings have a lot of maneuverability (it can change direction well) – more than a bird, in fact – but it does not have a lot of lift. Because of this, they usually have to climb up onto a tree or jump up into the air for the boost before they start flapping their wings.

Megabats eat fruit, nectar or pollen. Most microbats (7 out of 10) are “insectivorous”, that is, they eat insects, but some microbats eat small vertebrate animals (small mammals or fish), blood, or even other bats.

Bats perform a very important role in ecology: They pollinate flowers and sometimes spread their seeds. Many tropical plants completely depend on bats.

Bats mostly live in caves or trees. In North America and in Europe they sometimes live in peoples houses without them knowing. People can be scared by this and sometimes hurt the bats, who mean no harm, unless they are Vampire bats. They eat blood.

Fruit bats ("Pteropodidae") are the largest of the bats. They eat fruit and can see well. There are 166 species, all found in the Old World.

Vampire bats live in Latin America. They are famous for only drinking blood.

The Fisherman bat Lives in Latin America and the Caribbean. It swoops low over water and grabs small fish with its claws.

The bumblebee bat, from Thailand, is the world's smallest bat, and is also one of the world's smallest mammals. Adults grow to a length of 29-33mm, and weigh 2 grams. 

The biggest known bat is the Giant golden-crowned flying fox. It has a wing span of 1.5m and weighs approximately 1.2 kg.

In the United Kingdom all bats are protected by law, and even disturbing a bat or its roost can be punished with a heavy fine.

Austin, Texas is the summer home to North America's largest urban bat colony (under the Congress Avenue bridge), an estimated 1,500,000 Mexican free-tailed bats, who eat an estimated 10 to 30 tons of insects each night, and attract 100,000 tourists each year.

In Sarawak, Malaysia bats are protected species, but the large naked bat and greater nectar bat are eaten by the local communities.

In the West, Bats are associated with vampires, who are said to be able to change into bats. Bats are also a symbol of ghosts, death and disease. However bats are said to be lucky in some European countries, such as Poland.

The bat is used in fiction by both villains like dracula and heroes like Batman. Kenneth Oppel, wrote a series of novels , beginning with "Silverwing", which feature bats as good characters.

An old wives' tale says that bats will entangle themselves in people's hair. This is untrue as bats can detect even a single hair, and fly around it.


</doc>
<doc id="17101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17101" title="Category:2002 movies">
Category:2002 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2002.


</doc>
<doc id="17102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17102" title="Category:1995 movies">
Category:1995 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1995.


</doc>
<doc id="17103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17103" title="Category:1999 movies">
Category:1999 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1999.


</doc>
<doc id="17104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17104" title="Category:1994 movies">
Category:1994 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1994.


</doc>
<doc id="17105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17105" title="Miguel de Cervantes">
Miguel de Cervantes

Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra (September 29, 1547 – April 23, 1616) was a Spanish writer. His most famous book was "Don Quijote de la Mancha". It is considered the first modern novel. It has been published in 65 countries, and has been discussed by critics since the 17th century. His work is considered among the most important in all of literature. He is sometimes called "The Prince of Wits".

Nobody knows for sure the reasons that forced Cervantes to leave Castile. Whether he was a "student" of the same name, a "sword-wielding fugitive from justice", or fleeing from a royal warrant of arrest, for having wounded a certain Antonio de Sigura in a duel, is another mystery. In any event, in going to Italy, Cervantes was doing what many young Spaniards of the time did to further their careers in one way or another. Rome would reveal to the young artist its ecclesiastic pomp, ritual, and majesty. In a city teeming with ruins Cervantes could focus his attention on Renaissance art, architecture, and poetry (knowledge of Italian literature is readily discernible in his own productions) and on rediscovering antiquity. He could find in the ancients "a powerful impetus to revive the contemporary world in light of its accomplishments". Thus, Cervantes' continuing desire for Italy, as revealed in his later works, was in part a desire for a return to an earlier period of the Renaissance.

By 1570, Cervantes had enlisted as a soldier in a regiment of the Spanish naval elite corps, Infantería de Marina, stationed in Naples, then a possession of the Spanish crown. He was there for about a year before he saw active service. In September 1571 Cervantes sailed on board the "Marquesa", part of the galley fleet of the Holy League, Spain, the Republic of Venice, the Republic of Genoa, the Duchy of Savoy, the Knights Hospitaller based in Malta, and others, under the command of King Philip II's illegitimate half brother, John of Austria) that defeated the Ottoman fleet on October 7 in the Gulf of Lepanto near Corinth, at great cost to both sides. Though taken down with fever, Cervantes refused to stay below, and begged to be allowed to take part in the battle, saying that he would rather die for his God and his king than keep under cover. He fought bravely on board a vessel, and received three gunshot wounds – two in the chest, and one which rendered his left arm useless. In "Journey to Parnassus" he was to say that he "had lost the movement of the left hand for the glory of the right" (he was thinking of the success of the first part of "Don Quixote"). Cervantes always looked back onis conduct in the battle with pride: he believed that he had taken part in an event that would shape the course of European history.


</doc>
<doc id="17106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17106" title="Category:1936 movies">
Category:1936 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1936.


</doc>
<doc id="17107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17107" title="Category:1968 movies">
Category:1968 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1968.


</doc>
<doc id="17108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17108" title="Category:1996 movies">
Category:1996 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1996.


</doc>
<doc id="17109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17109" title="Category:1977 movies">
Category:1977 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1977.


</doc>
<doc id="17110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17110" title="Category:2004 movies">
Category:2004 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2004.


</doc>
<doc id="17112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17112" title="Category:1973 movies">
Category:1973 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1973.


</doc>
<doc id="17113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17113" title="Category:1982 movies">
Category:1982 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1982.


</doc>
<doc id="17114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17114" title="Category:1985 movies">
Category:1985 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1985.


</doc>
<doc id="17115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17115" title="Category:1986 movies">
Category:1986 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1986.


</doc>
<doc id="17117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17117" title="Category:1946 movies">
Category:1946 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1946.


</doc>
<doc id="17118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17118" title="Category:1998 movies">
Category:1998 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1998.


</doc>
<doc id="17119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17119" title="Category:1991 movies">
Category:1991 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1991.


</doc>
<doc id="17120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17120" title="Category:2003 movies">
Category:2003 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="17121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17121" title="Category:1997 movies">
Category:1997 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1997.


</doc>
<doc id="17122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17122" title="Category:1547 births">
Category:1547 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1547.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="17123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17123" title="Category:1970 movies">
Category:1970 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1970.


</doc>
<doc id="17133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17133" title="Game Boy line">
Game Boy line

The Game Boys are a group of handheld video game consoles made by Nintendo.

The first Game Boy was released in 1989. It had a small screen, a D-pad, and an A and B button. To play games, there were small objects called cartridges that you put into the Game Boy to play the game in the cartridge. The game that made it popular was Tetris. The Game Boy had a link cable and a link port which let it connect with other Game Boys.

After the Game Boy, Nintendo released the Game Boy Pocket. It only needed two batteries instead of four. The link port was smaller than the Game Boy's, so the Game Boy and Game Boy Pocket could not connect.

The Game Boy Light was only in Japan and had a backlight so people could see better. It is very rare. Because it is rare, it sells for more money than other Game Boys.

The Game Boy Color was the first Game Boy in color. It was also able to play Game Boy cartridges, which helped it sell better. This also helped other Game Boy models after the Game Boy Color. It is sometimes called GBC.

The Game Boy Advance is a handheld that had better color and smaller cartridges. It is sometimes called GBA. It came out in 2001.

The Game Boy Advance SP was an improved version of the GBA. It has a clamshell design, which means you can fold it to make it smaller. It has a better light. It can play Game Boy and Game Boy Color games, along with the new cartridges introduced with the GBA.

The Game Boy Micro is a smaller GBA. It has a smaller link port than the Game Boy Advance. It has the very best screen out of all the Game Boys.

When Nintendo released the Nintendo DS handheld in 2004, they said it was a "third pillar" (the other two pillars were the Game Boy and the home console). It has two screens, one of them is a touch screen. DS games use cards in Slot 1. In Slot 2, it can accept Game Boy Advance games, but not the older Game Boy or Game Boy Color ones.


</doc>
<doc id="17138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17138" title="Pope Paul VI">
Pope Paul VI

Pope Paul VI, born Giovanni Battista Enrico Antonio Maria Montini, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 263rd Pope from from 1963 until his death in 1978. Paul was a spiritual leader and the head of the church bureaucracy.

Montini was born in Concesio which is near Bresca in northern Italy. His father was editor of a Roman Catholic newspaper. His studies produced degrees in civil and canon law, theology and philosophy. 

Montini was ordained and celebrated his first mass in 1920. He worked in the Vatican diplomatic corps. 

During World War II, he was in charge of the Vatican's work for refugees and prisoners of war.

He was made Archbishop of Milan in 1954.

Pope John XXIII made Montini a cardinal in 1958.

Cardinal Montini was elected Pope in 1963.

Pope Paul continued the Second Vatican Council which was begun by Pope John XXIII. 

His first encyclical is the only one in the Vatican archives which is in the handwriting of the pope who delivered it.

Paul VI was known as the "pilgrim" pope for his numerous travels. He was the first pope to fly in an airplane. 

In 1964, Paul was the first pope to travel to the Holy Land, flying first to Amman in Jordan and then traveling by car to Jerusalem. 

In 1970, the pope visited Australia, the Phillipines, and Indonesia. 

In 1975, Paul declared 1975 to be a "jubilee" year with themes of renewal and reconciliation.

The Pope Paul VI Hall is the modern building in which mass papal audiences are held.

Serafian, Michael. (1964). "The Pilgrim." New York: Farrar, Straus. OCLC 386084?



</doc>
<doc id="17171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17171" title="Macau">
Macau

The Macao Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China (Macau or Macao, Pinyin: Aomen, Cantonese: Ou Mun) is one of the two Special Administrative Regions in China. (The other one is Hong Kong). Macau is a small city in the southern coast in China. It consists of Macau Peninsula (Aomen Bandao), Taipa Island (Dangzai Dao), Coloane Island (Luhuan Dao) and Cotai (Ludangcheng), the new reclaimed land between Taipa and Coloane.

Beforehand, Macao was a colony of Portugal. Today, Macao mostly lives from offshore gambling. They make some money from exporting clothing.


</doc>
<doc id="17173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17173" title="Taipei">
Taipei

Taipei City (Traditional Chinese: 臺北市; is the capital city of the democratic island country of the Republic of China (Taiwan), known by most people simply as Taiwan. It also is the largest city in Taiwan.



</doc>
<doc id="17183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17183" title="Bob Chiarelli">
Bob Chiarelli

Robert (Bob) Chiarelli (born September 24, 1941) is the current mayor of Ottawa, Canada. He grew up in Ottawa, and was married to the late Carol Chiarelli.

He was first made mayor of the new Ottawa on November 13, 2000.


</doc>
<doc id="17184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17184" title="Skeleton">
Skeleton

A skeleton is the hard structure that supports the body of a living thing. Skeletons can be inside the body or outside the body. In mammals, which include humans, the skeleton is made of bones. All the bones, when they are joined together, make the "skeletal system" of a body. The skeletal system or "skeleton" is under the skin, the muscle and the tissue of the body. The skeleton supports the skin, muscle and tissue, and all the organs that are inside the body. The skeleton protects important internal organs like the brain, heart and lungs.


The important parts of a human body are the head, the spine, the chest, the abdomen, the arms and hands, and the legs and feet. 

The head bones all together are called the skull. 

The spine supports the head, the chest and the structure that carries the arms. It is made of small bones called vertebrae. The spine, all together, is called the spinal column. It is not straight, but has curves that help to support the body, and help the person to move and bend. One bone is a "vertebra". Lots are "vertebrae".
The "vertebrae" have different names, depending on the part of the body they are joined to. 

This part of the body is made of the sacrum and the two pelvic bones which are joined to it on either side. The pelvic bones are carried by the leg bones, and they support the "spinal column". Each pelvic bone has a strong structure for the leg bone to fit into, so that a person can stand, walk, run and jump. Each pelvic bone spreads into a large flat plate which supports the person's "internal organs". The pelvis of a woman spreads into a wider shape than a man's, so that when the woman is pregnant, the baby is supported by the pelvis, until it is ready to be born. At the bottom of the pelvis is a large opening, big enough for a baby to pass through. 

The chest is called the thorax, and the vertebrae that are part of it are the thoracic vertebrae. The thorax is made up of long flat curved bones called ribs. At the back, the ribs are joined to the vetebrae. At the front, most of the ribs are joined to the sternum, which is often called the "breast bone". All together, the "thorax" protects the heart, lungs and stomach. 

At the top of the "thorax" is the shoulder girdle. This is made of two thin horizontal bones at the front, joined to the "sternum". These two bones are called the clavicles or "collar bones". At the back of the "thorax" are two flat triangular-shaped bones called the scapulae, or "shoulder blades". The "clavicles" and "scapulae" come together on each side to make "shoulders". The bones of the arms fit into sockets (cup-like holes) in the "scapulae". 

Arms and legs both have a thicker bone at the top and two thinner bones at the bottom. They both have a rotating joint at the top, and a hinge joint in the middle. The hands and feet have lots of bones and are joined to the arms and legs by small bones with sliding parts. 



A skeleton, or just a skull, has often been used as a symbol for Death. 

Skeletons, particularly living skeletons, have often been used in horror stories and comedies.



</doc>
<doc id="17187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17187" title="Category:Handheld video games">
Category:Handheld video games

This category is for handheld video game consoles.


</doc>
<doc id="17188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17188" title="Category:Cities in Taiwan">
Category:Cities in Taiwan


</doc>
<doc id="17189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17189" title="Category:Mormonism">
Category:Mormonism

This category has articles relating to the Book of Mormon and those who accept the Book of Mormon as a sacred text.


</doc>
<doc id="17190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17190" title="Category:1805 births">
Category:1805 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1805.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="17191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17191" title="Category:1844 deaths">
Category:1844 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17193" title="GP2X">
GP2X

The GP2X is a handheld gaming console. It uses the Linux operating system. An operating system goes inside another system. It helps the other system do what it needs to. The GP2X can have music, videos, games, and pictures. There are updates to the GP2X so it will get more things. The GP2X can have DivX, XviD, MP3, and Ogg Vorbis. DivX and XviD are ways to keep videos and MP3 and Ogg Vorbis can keep music. It can also be able to emulate video games. Emulating means you copy a system. It can emulate systems like the Nintendo Entertainment System, Sega Master System, Turbo Grafx 16, Game Boy, Super Nintendo Entertainment System, and Genesis.



</doc>
<doc id="17207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17207" title="Community">
Community

A community is a group of living things sharing the same environment. They usually have shared interests. In human communities, people have some of the same beliefs and needs, and this affects the identity of the group and the people in it.


</doc>
<doc id="17223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17223" title="Upton Sinclair">
Upton Sinclair

Upton Beall Sinclair (1878-1968) was a writer of many works from the United States. His most famous book, "The Jungle" from 1906, was about the American meat-packing industry.

Upton Sinclair had political opinions and was a socialist. Most of Sinclair's books, including "The Jungle", dealt with social injustice. 

He wrote many other books. His book "The Flivver King" was about the Ford Motor Company. "The Flivver King" was written at the time when workers at Ford factories were trying to start a labor union. He wrote a series (many books in a row) with Lanny Budd as the main character. There were eleven (11) Lanny Budd books. The Lanny Budd books were about current events in the World at the time.

He later joined the Democratic Party and ran for governor of the state of California in 1934. He wanted California to start new businesses which would be run by the state government. This was to help people who were unemployed (did not have jobs) because of the Great Depression. He lost the election. 

He retired in the town of Buckeye, Arizona.


</doc>
<doc id="17224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17224" title="Gizmondo">
Gizmondo

Gizmondo is a handheld video game system. It is made by Tiger Telematics. It has GPRS and GPS. GPRS is used to go on the Internet, and GPS is where you can see where you are. Some games will use the Gizmondo's GPS. It has a camera. It can also send text (words) and multimedia (pictures and videos and music) messages, play MP3/WAV/MIDI music and WMA/MP4 video, and play games. MP3, WAV, and MIDI are ways to keep music, and WMA and MP4 are ways to keep videos.

Gizmondo came out in the United Kingdom in March 2005 for £229. It came out in the USA in October 22, 2005. Games include Agaju: the Sacred Path, Colors, and Chicane. 

In the February of 2006 the company was forced into bankruptcy and discontinued the Gizmondo.


</doc>
<doc id="17227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17227" title="Category:1878 births">
Category:1878 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1878.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="17228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17228" title="Antarctic Treaty System">
Antarctic Treaty System

The Antarctic Treaty System is a set of agreements about the continent of Antarctica. It was signed in 1959 and took effect in 1961. So far, it has been signed by 48 countries.

The main idea of the Antarctic Treaty System (ATS) is to make sure that:
The ATS is used for governing the continent.


</doc>
<doc id="17229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17229" title="Category:Books by year">
Category:Books by year

This is a set of lists of books by the first year when it was printed.


</doc>
<doc id="17230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17230" title="Category:1859 books">
Category:1859 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1859.


</doc>
<doc id="17231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17231" title="Category:1962 books">
Category:1962 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1962.


</doc>
<doc id="17232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17232" title="Category:2003 books">
Category:2003 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="17233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17233" title="Category:2005 books">
Category:2005 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="17234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17234" title="Category:1997 books">
Category:1997 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1997.


</doc>
<doc id="17235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17235" title="Category:1998 books">
Category:1998 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1998.


</doc>
<doc id="17237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17237" title="Kansas City, Missouri">
Kansas City, Missouri

Kansas City is the biggest city in the U.S. state of Missouri. The Kansas River and Missouri River meet one another in Kansas City. The city has about 448,000 people, and the entire metropolitan area has about 2,000,000 people, some of whom live in the state of Kansas. Its mayor is Sly James. Some sports teams there are the Royals (baseball), the Chiefs (American football), and the Wizards (soccer). Kansas City is well known for some of its barbecue restaurants, and is also an important place for business.


</doc>
<doc id="17238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17238" title="Category:1942 books">
Category:1942 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1942.


</doc>
<doc id="17239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17239" title="Category:1937 books">
Category:1937 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1937.


</doc>
<doc id="17242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17242" title="Category:1949 books">
Category:1949 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1949.


</doc>
<doc id="17243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17243" title="Category:1948 movies">
Category:1948 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1948.


</doc>
<doc id="17244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17244" title="Category:1960 movies">
Category:1960 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1960.


</doc>
<doc id="17245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17245" title="Category:1990 movies">
Category:1990 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1990.


</doc>
<doc id="17247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17247" title="Category:Cities in New Zealand">
Category:Cities in New Zealand


</doc>
<doc id="17250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17250" title="Category:1605 books">
Category:1605 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1605.


</doc>
<doc id="17251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17251" title="Category:1615 books">
Category:1615 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1615.


</doc>
<doc id="17252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17252" title="Category:1993 books">
Category:1993 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1993.


</doc>
<doc id="17254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17254" title="Category:Honduras">
Category:Honduras


</doc>
<doc id="17260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17260" title="Template:Otheruses">
Template:Otheruses

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="17262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17262" title="Cascading Style Sheets">
Cascading Style Sheets

Cascading Style Sheets, or CSS, are a way to change the look of HTML and XHTML web pages. CSS was designed by the W3C, and is supported well by most modern web browsers. The current version of CSS is CSS 2. CSS version 3 is currently being worked on. It will introduce new properties like codice_1. 

One advantage to using CSS is a web page can still be displayed and understood, even if the CSS is not working or removed.

CSS code is saved in files with the .css file extension.

To make all paragraphs on a page blue and sized 20% bigger than normal text, we would apply this CSS rule to a page:



</doc>
<doc id="17263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17263" title="Allah">
Allah

The word Allah (الله) is the Arabic term for God, or in other words, the Arabic God. In Islam, Allah is the main word for God. Muslims use 99 Names of God to describe God, but Allah is the most common of these and means all of them. When a Muslim says Allah, all of the other names of God are thought of as part of it. Muslims also believe that this word tells about God's being a single entity and as being without wrong or defect and of God having no partner. 

In Arabic, the name is composed of four letters, ا ل ل ه (or Alif Lam Lam Ha) which when brought together make الله. Most Arab Christians believe that Allah is made up of three divine beings; the Father, Son and Spirit, that together they make up God.

"Allah" is often used by Muslims, when they are praying. Muslims have a faith in one God, the one who made everything, the one judge and only the one who has power over all things.

Allah is the one who created the heavens and the Earth by just saying 'Kun' which means 'Be'.


</doc>
<doc id="17267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17267" title="Wikipedia:Privacy policy">
Wikipedia:Privacy policy

If you only read the Wikimedia project websites, there is no more information collected about you than is normally collected by web sites in general in their server logs.

If you contribute to the Wikimedia projects, you are publishing every word you post publicly. If you write something, assume that it will be kept forever. This includes articles, user pages and talk pages. Some limited exceptions are described below.

Simply visiting the web site does not expose your identity publicly (but see private logging below).

When you edit any page in the wiki, you are publishing a document. This is a public act, and you are identified publicly with that edit as its author.

When you publish a page in the wiki, you may be logged in or not.

If you are logged in, you will be identified by your user name. This may be your real name if you so choose, or you may choose to publish under a pseudonym, whatever user name you selected when you created your account.

If you have not logged in, you will be identified by your network IP address. This is a series of four numbers which identifies the internet address from which you are contacting the wiki. Depending on your connection, this number may be traceable only to a large internet service provider, or specifically to your school, place of business, or home. It may be possible that the origin of this IP address could be used in conjunction with any interests you express implicitly or explicitly by editing articles to identify you even by private individuals. 

It may be either difficult or easy for a motivated individual to connect your network IP address with your real-life identity. Therefore if you are very concerned about privacy, you may wish to log in and publish under a pseudonym. When using a pseudonym, your IP address will not be available to the public, but it will be stored on the wiki servers for a relatively short amount of time. Thus it will be available to developers and may be released under certain circumstances (see below).

If you use a company mail server from home or telecommute and use a DSL or cable internet connection, it is likely to be very easy for your employer to identify your IP address and find all of your IP based Wikimedia project contributions. Using a user name is a better way of preserving your privacy in this situation. However, remember to disconnect yourself after using a pseudonym to avoid allowing others to use your identity.

The wiki will set a temporary session cookie (PHPSESSID) whenever you visit the site. If you do not intend to ever log in, you may deny this cookie, but you cannot log in without it. It will be deleted when you close your browser session.

More cookies may be set when you log in, to avoid typing in your user name (or optionally password) on your next visit. These last up to 30 days. You may clear these cookies after use if you are using a public machine and don't wish to expose your username to future users of the machine. (If so, clear the browser cache as well.)

Many aspects of the Wikimedia projects community interactions depend on the reputation and respect that is built up through a history of valued contributions. User passwords are the only guarantee of the integrity of a user's edit history. All users are encouraged to select strong passwords and to never share them. No one shall knowingly expose the password of another user to public release either directly or indirectly.

Every time you visit a web page, you send a lot of information to the web server. Most web servers routinely maintain access logs with a portion of this information, which can be used to get an overall picture of what pages are popular, what other sites link to this one, and what web browsers people are using. It is not the intention of the Wikimedia projects to use this information to keep track of legitimate users.

These logs are used to produce the site statistics pages; the raw log data is not made public, and is normally discarded after about two weeks.

Here's a sample of what's logged for one page view:

Log data may be examined by developers in the course of solving technical problems, in tracking down badly-behaved web spiders that overwhelm the site, or very rarely to correlate usernames and network addresses of edits in investigating abuse of the wiki.

It is the policy of Wikimedia that personally identifiable data collected in the server logs will not be released by the developers who have access to it, except as follows:


Wikimedia policy does not permit public distribution of such information under any circumstances, except as described above.

Except where otherwise specified, all text added to Wikimedia projects is available for reuse under the terms of the GFDL, except for Wikinews, where the text is available under a Creative Commons License.

Wikimedia will not sell or share private information, such as email addresses, with third parties, unless you agree to release this information, or it is required by law to release the information.

The Wikimedia Foundation makes no guarantee against unauthorized access to any information you provide. This information will be available to all with access to the servers.

You may provide your e-mail address in your Preferences. This allows other logged-in users may send email to you through the wiki (unless you disable this in your preferences). Your address will not be revealed to them unless you respond, or possibly if the email bounces. The email address may be used by the Wikimedia Foundation to communicate with users on a wider scale.

If you do not provide an email address, you will not be able to reset your password if you forget it. However, you may contact one of Wikimedia developer to enter a new mail address in your preferences.

You can remove your email address from your preferences at any time to prevent it being used.

If you subscribe to one of the project mailing lists, your address will be exposed to any other subscriber. The list archives of most of Wikimedia's mailing lists are public, and your address may find itself quoted in messages. The list archives are also archived by Gmane services. Mails are usually not deleted or modified, but it may be done in extreme cases.

Some email addresses (see below) may forward mail to a team of volunteers trusted by the community to use a ticket system (OTRS) to view them and answer them. Mail sent to the system is not publicly visible, but is visible to this group of Wikimedia editors. By sending a mail to one of these addresses, your address may become public within this group. The OTRS team may discuss the contents of your mail with other contributors in order to best answer your query.

Addresses that direct to OTRS system are:

Mail to board@wikimedia.org or to board member's private addresses may also be forwarded to the OTRS team.

 are not officially part of Wikimedia proper. By participating to an IRC channel, your IP address will be exposed to other participants. Different channels have different policies on whether logs may be published. 

Data on users, such as the times at which they edited and the number of edits they have made are publicly available via "user contributions" lists, and occasionally in aggregated forms published by other users.

Once created, user accounts can not be removed. It may be possible for a developer to change the username on an account, but you will need to request this yourself. The Wikimedia Foundation does not guarantee that a name will be changed on request. See for further details.

Whether specific user information is deleted is dependant on the deletion policies of the project that contains the information.

Deleting text from Wikimedia projects does not really delete them. In normal articles, anyone can look at a previous version and see what was there. If an article is "deleted", any sysop/administrator, meaning almost anyone trusted not to abuse the deletion capability, can see what was deleted. Only a developer can permanently delete information from the Wikimedia projects and there is no guarantee this will happen except in response to legal action.


</doc>
<doc id="17271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17271" title="Template:Calendar2">
Template:Calendar2


</doc>
<doc id="17272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17272" title="Template:Calendar6">
Template:Calendar6


</doc>
<doc id="17273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17273" title="Template:Calendar5">
Template:Calendar5


</doc>
<doc id="17274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17274" title="Template:Calendar11">
Template:Calendar11


</doc>
<doc id="17275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17275" title="Template:Calendar14">
Template:Calendar14


</doc>
<doc id="17276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17276" title="Template:Calendar13">
Template:Calendar13


</doc>
<doc id="17277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17277" title="Template:Calendar8">
Template:Calendar8


</doc>
<doc id="17282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17282" title="IPod nano">
IPod nano

The iPod nano is a MP3 player made by Apple Inc. It is available in 8GB and 16GB memory, in nine colours: silver, grey, purple, blue, green, yellow, orange, red, and pink.

There is a built-in FM receiver inside the iPod nano, and with the radio app, radio from the FM channels can be listened to. There is also a feature called Live Pause which allows listeners to pause the radio stream, and resume it at the same place later.
The iPod nano can 'talk to you', using a feature called VoiceOver. When the button on the headphones or the Click Wheel is held down, VoiceOver will speak the song currently playing and its artist. This feature is available in 20 languages.
The iPod nano has a built-in pedometer. You can create a Daily Step goal, or use the 'Always On' setting so it counts all of your steps.

Using the Nike+iPod sport kit, the iPod nano can be used as a fitness aid. It can measure your run by fitting into the insole Nike+ shoe pocket, then it can sync it to nikeplus.com. Nike+ is also compatible with some exercise machines.
The iPod nano includes a video camera which can be used to capture video. You can add fifteen video effects, then upload it to YouTube, MobileMe, or FaceBook with your computer.


</doc>
<doc id="17283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17283" title="Proton decay">
Proton decay

Proton decay is a theory where some physicists believe that radioactive decay could also be that a proton decays into two particles smaller than an atom, a pion and a positron. So far, this has not been observed though. Most current theories say that protons do not decay.


</doc>
<doc id="17286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17286" title="99 Names of God">
99 Names of God

The 99 Names of God (Arabic:أسماء الله الحسنى translit:Asma’ Allah al-Ḥusná) also known as The 99 attributes of Allah, according to Islamic tradition, are the names of God revealed to man in the Qur'an.

The 99 Names of God (Allah)* according to the tradition of Islam are:


Please note that the English translation of names may have a slightly different meaning than the original Arabic word due to the words available in each language.


</doc>
<doc id="17296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17296" title="Single-player video game">
Single-player video game

A single player game, when talking about computer games or video games, means a game that is played by one player. It involves playing against or with computer-controlled (AI) characters.


</doc>
<doc id="17299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17299" title="Fallopian tube">
Fallopian tube

The fallopian tubes (also known as oviducts and uterine tubes) connect the ovaries to the uterus, and let the ovum pass into the uterus where they are able to be fertilized by sperm during sexual intercourse or other ways, such as artificial insemination. There are two Fallopian tubes attached to either side of the uterus.

They are named after the 16th century Italian anatomist, Gabriele Falloppio. The Greek word salpinx (σαλπιγξ) means "trumpet".

There are two Fallopian tubes attached to either side of the end of the uterus. Each tube will end near one ovary. This place is called the fimbria. The Fallopian tubes are not attached to the ovaries, but open into the peritoneal cavity.

In humans, the Fallopian tubes are about 7 - 14 cm long. 

There are four parts of the fallopian tube from the ovary to the uterus:

The fallopian tube is made of three layers:


The Fallopian tubes can move around the pelvis.

When an ovum is ready to be released from the ovary, the ovary wall breaks open and the ovum goes into the fallopian tube. There, it starts moving towards to uterus with the help of liquids and cilia on the inside walls. This can take hours or days.

If the ovum is fertilized while in the fallopian tube, then it sticks to the endometrium, which is the beginning of pregnancy.



</doc>
<doc id="17301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17301" title="1818">
1818

1818 is a common year in the Gregorian calendar.



</doc>
<doc id="17302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17302" title="Carmen Miranda">
Carmen Miranda

Carmen Miranda (February 9, 1909 – August 5, 1955) was a Portuguese born Brazilian singer and actress. She was best known for her exotic costumes and hats made of fruit.


</doc>
<doc id="17303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17303" title="Magnum, P.I.">
Magnum, P.I.

Magnum, P.I. was a television show starring Tom Selleck. It was on TV from 1980 to 1988. It told the story of Thomas Magnum III, a private detective working in Hawaii.


</doc>
<doc id="17304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17304" title="Twin Peaks">
Twin Peaks

Twin Peaks was a TV series that ran from 1990 to 1991. It told the story of an FBI agent who comes to a strange small town to investigate the murder of a girl. It was made by David Lynch.


</doc>
<doc id="17305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17305" title="McDonald's">
McDonald's

McDonald's is the world's largest chain of fast food restaurants. They mainly serve hamburgers, cheeseburgers, chicken products, French fries, breakfast items, soft drinks, milkshakes and desserts. They also have options such as salads, apples, milk, and Snack Wraps on the menu.

McDonald's was originally founded by Richard and Maurice McDonald. The modern McDonald's Corporation was founded by Ray Kroc, however.

McDonald's has been around since 1955, when it was started by Ray Kroc in Des Plaines, Illinois. Kroc had bought the previous company from Dick and Maurice (Mac) McDonald, who opened their restaurant in 1940. This first restaurant was on Route 66 in San Bernardino, California.

McDonald's is the world's largest fast food chain, and it is a worldwide corporation. McDonald's can be found in 120 countries and territories around the world. They serve almost 54 million people each day.

More McDonald's food is sold in the United States than in any other area, which means that it is McDonald's largest market. Europe is McDonald's second largest market..

The restaurants are either operated by the company or more commonly under a Franchising arrangement, where the business is owned and operated by an individual to the standards set by McDonald's and with support from the McDonald's company. The company provides a central source of supply for food items and standardized menu.

The McDonald's mascot is Ronald McDonald.

McDonald's has restaurants in the following countries:



</doc>
<doc id="17307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17307" title="English people">
English people

English people are British citizens born in England. Most English people speak the English language. Over the years, many English people have moved to other countries, such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa.

The English are one of the nations of the island of Great Britain, which they share with the Scots and the Welsh. They are descended from immigrants from all over Europe.


</doc>
<doc id="17310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17310" title="To Kill a Mockingbird">
To Kill a Mockingbird

To Kill a Mockingbird is a novel written by Harper Lee, published in 1960. It became very successful: it won the Pulitzer Prize and became a classic of modern American literature. The writer based the story and characters on her family and neighbors, and something that happened near her hometown in 1936. This was when she was 10 years old.

The novel is famous for being warm and funny, even though serious subjects like rape and racism are in the book. The narrator's father (the father of the person telling the story), Atticus Finch, is thought of as a hero by many readers and a model for lawyers. One critic wrote, "In the twentieth century, "To Kill a Mockingbird" is probably the most widely read book dealing with race in America, and its protagonist, Atticus Finch, the most enduring (long-lasting) fictional image of racial heroism."

"To Kill a Mockingbird" is a Southern Gothic novel and a "bildungsroman" (a story where the main character develops and grows). Its main themes are racism and innocence. Lee also writes about bravery, compassion, and gender roles in the American Deep South. The book is taught in many schools in English-speaking countries with lessons about being patient and fair. However, some people have said that "To Kill a Mockingbird" should not be taught in public classrooms because it includes bad words about differences in race.

It is set during the Great Depression of the 1930s. It was first published in 1960 and made into a movie in 1962. It tells the story of a young girl, Jean Louise Finch, (known as "Scout") and her brother Jeremy Atticus Finch (known as "Jem"). They live in the Southern United States with their father Atticus Finch, who is a lawyer. In the story Atticus defends a black man, Tom Robinson, who has been accused of raping a white woman called Mayella Ewell.

Harper Lee was born in 1926 and grew up in the Southern town of Monroeville, Alabama. There, she became close friends with Truman Capote, who became a famous writer later. She went to Huntingdon College in Montgomery (1944–45), and then studied law at the University of Alabama (1945–49). When she went to college, she wrote for literary magazines, like "Huntress" and "Rammer Jammer". At both colleges, she wrote short stories and other works about racial unfairness, which was not usually written about in colleges at the time. In 1950, Lee moved to New York City, where she worked as a clerk for British Overseas Airways Corporation. While she was there, she began writing essays and short stories about people in Monroeville. In 1957, Lee showed her writing to a literary agent Capote told her about. An editor at J. B. Lippincott suggested to her that she should stop working at the airline and focus on writing instead. Her friends gave her money to help her continue writing for a year.

Lee spent two and a half years writing "To Kill a Mockingbird". The National Endowment for the Arts describes how Lee once became so unhappy that she threw her manuscript out the window into the snow. Her agent made her take her writing back again. The book was printed on July 11, 1960. It was first titled "Atticus", but Lee changed its name because the story was more than simply about one character. The editors at Lippincott told Lee that she would probably sell only several thousand copies. In 1964, Lee said, "I never expected any sort of success with 'Mockingbird.' ... I was hoping for a quick and merciful death at the hands of the reviewers but, at the same time, I sort of hoped someone would like it enough to give me encouragement. Public encouragement. I hoped for a little, as I said, but I got rather a whole lot, and in some ways this was just about as frightening as the quick, merciful death I'd expected." Instead of a "quick and merciful death", "Reader's Digest Condensed Books" chose part of the book to be printed again. This immediately made many more people read it. After it was first published, the book never stopped being printed.

The story happens during three years of the Great Depression in the fictional town of Maycomb, Alabama. The city is in a fictional county of the same name. It is told in the first person by Jean Louise "Scout" Finch. She is six years old; lives with her older brother Jeremy "Jem"; her father Atticus, a lawyer; her mother died when she was young. Jem and Scout become friends with a boy named Charles Baker Harris, nicknamed Dill, who visits Maycomb to stay with his aunt in the summer. The children are interested in their neighbors' (the Radleys) estate. Few people had seen the residents for many years. The children imagine how Boo Radley looks, why he hides in his house, and how to make him come out. After two summers, Scout and Jem find small presents in a tree outside the Radley place. Boo often shows signs of kindness to the children, but they never meet him personally.



</doc>
<doc id="17311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17311" title="Abigail and Brittany Hensel">
Abigail and Brittany Hensel

Abigail and Brittany Hensel (born March 7, 1990 in Minnesota, United States) are conjoined twins with mostly one body and two heads. They are joined at the pelvis and each one controls one side of their body, which means they have to do things together. Brittany is on the left, and Abigail is on the right. They have two spines that join at the pelvis. They have two stomachs and four lungs, and at birth they had a third arm in between their heads. The third arm was not properly developed, so it was removed. 



</doc>
<doc id="17312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17312" title="52 BC">
52 BC



</doc>
<doc id="17314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17314" title="Category:1962 movies">
Category:1962 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1962.


</doc>
<doc id="17315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17315" title="Category:1960 books">
Category:1960 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1960.


</doc>
<doc id="17316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17316" title="Category:1990 births">
Category:1990 births


</doc>
<doc id="17317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17317" title="Category:1990s births">
Category:1990s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1990s, starting from the year 1990 to the year 1999.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="17318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17318" title="Category:1998 albums">
Category:1998 albums

Albums released in 1998.


</doc>
<doc id="17319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17319" title="Category:1998 in music">
Category:1998 in music


</doc>
<doc id="17320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17320" title="Category:Brazilian people">
Category:Brazilian people


</doc>
<doc id="17322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17322" title="Category:1954 movies">
Category:1954 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1954.


</doc>
<doc id="17329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17329" title="Cape Town">
Cape Town

Cape Town is the legislative capital of South Africa.

It is on the southern coast.

It was originally called the "Cape of Storms" by Bartolomeu Dias in 1486, a Portuguese explorer but was changed by King John II of Portugal to "Cape of Good Hope".

The city's most predominant feature is Table Mountain, a mountain with a flat top.


</doc>
<doc id="17330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17330" title="Hard and soft drugs">
Hard and soft drugs

Certain kinds of drugs that act on the nervous system are sometimes loosely classified. Usually there are the following categories:




In the Netherlands, there is a situation where the use of Soft drugs is tolerated. 


Marsh P. et al. 2003. Attachment, autonomy, and multifinality in adolescent internalizing and risky behavioral symptoms Dev.Psychopathol., 15:451-467.

Robins L.N. 1995.The natural history of substance use as a guide to setting drug policy. "Am. J. Public Health". 85(1): 
12–13

opiod


</doc>
<doc id="17332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17332" title="Tehran">
Tehran

Tehran (or Teheran [?]) (تهران in Persian), is the capital of Iran and the center of Tehran Province.
The origin of the name Tehran is unknown. The word Tehran means "warm mountain slope". Tehran is located at the foot of the Alborz mountain range.

Tehran is 32nd National Capital of Iran. Tehran is the largest city in the Middle East & Western Asia and is the 16th most populated city in the world. It has a population of around 8 million people. Tehran has 4 counties: Tehran, Shemiranat, Rey & Islamshahr. Tehran has a large network of highways.

Tehran was well known as a village in the 9th century, but was less well-known than the city of Rhages (Ray. Tehran today, replaces Ray, the ancient capital of Iran destroyed by the Mongols in 1220 A.D. , the ruins of which can be seen 6km south of Tehran. In 1869/70 A.D., Tehran acquired considerable prestige and was enclosed in an 8-km rampart which had 12 gates.

During the Safavid period, Shah Safi created a military base in Tehran, and had two great towers erected therein, which became known as "Ghaleh Meydan" and "Ghaleh Hessa". "Karim Khan Zand" lived in Tehran. for 4 years. In the early of 18th century, "Karim Khan Zand", ordered a palace, and a government office to be built in Tehran. But, later, moved his government Capital to Shiraz.

Finally, Tehran became the capital of Iran, in 1795, when Agha Mohammad Khan, became Iran King. It remains the capital to now. During the reign of Agha Mohammad khan, the governmental head quarters were built north of "Emam_zade Zayd". Agha Mohammad Khan became King of Iran in "Khalvat Karimkhani Palace" in Tehran. during the reign of Fath Ali Shah, the soltani mosque, the Abbas_abad bazaar, and the Ilchi garden (the site of today`s Russia embassy) were added. Nasser_e_din_Shah change her palace from center of Tehran to Sadabad. He changed view of Tehran from a town to Modern Capital.

In Russia Embassy in Iran, Tehran Conference was held. The Tehran Conference (codenamed Eureka) was the meeting of Joseph Stalin, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill between November 28 and December 1, 1943, most of which was held at the Soviet Embassy in Tehran, Iran. It was the first World War II conference amongst the Big Three (the Soviet Union, the United States, and the United Kingdom) in which Stalin was present. The central aim of the Tehran conference was to plan the final strategy for the war against Nazi Germany and its allies, and the chief discussion was centered on the opening of a second front in Western Europe.

During the 1980–88, in War, Tehran was attacked by Scud missile and air strikes. After Islamic Revolution in Iran & during war between Iran & Iraq, many people left Tehran. In last years, many professional people who lived in Tehran, left Iran, for Freedom & better Life in abroad. Traffic, Crime, Drugs & lack of freedom in Tehran, are most important reasons about it.


Tehran is the center of most Iranian industries & Services. Tehran is also a leading center for the sale of carpets and furniture. After end war Iran & Iraq, 80% of capital in Tehran, turn between only 10% people who lived in Tehran & Many people in Tehran became poor. Almost, they live in small apartment and work more than 12 hours in per day.

In this vast city, numerous historic sites can be admired, the most famous of which are the palaces of Sadabad, Niavaran, Sahebqaranyyeh and Golestan, the mosque of Seyyed Azizollah, the great Bazar of Tehran and a multitude of museums, such as Reza Abbasi museum, the carpet museum of Iran, Abguineh (glass and ceramics) museum, the Azadi museum & etc. And Tehran has 740 Parks.

Leisure and sport resorts around Tehran include Abali, Dizin, Gajereh and Shemshak ski stations, the dam water ski station and the slopes of Darband and Shemiran.


</doc>
<doc id="17333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17333" title="Philadelphia">
Philadelphia

Philadelphia is a large city in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. It is the biggest city in Pennsylvania, and the fifth biggest city in the United States of America. In spoken English, the city is sometimes called Philly. 

The population of the city was 1,517,550 people in 2000, but the 2010 census was up to 1,526.006 people. Philadelphia was the capital of the United States from 1790 to 1800. It was replaced by Washington, D.C. in 1800 after the White House was built.

Philadelphia is famous because it has many places tourists like to visit, like the Liberty Bell, Independence Hall, and Christ Church. 

Before Europeans came to the area, Philadelphia was home to the Lenape people. The first Europeans to come were the Dutch, who built towns and a fort in the area. The English took over the city in 1664. In 1781, King Charles of England gave a large piece of land to William Penn, to pay back some money he owed to Penn's father. William Penn had a dream of a land where people would be free to live and work no matter what religion they were. He built a city in the new land called Philadelphia. The name comes from the Greek, (Greek: Φιλαδέλφεια, /fi.la.ˈdɛl.fɛj.a/, "brotherly love", from philos "loving" and adelphos "brother"). People came to the new land from many other places where they were not free to go to their own churches. Other people came because they hoped to have a better life in a new country. A lot of people came from Germany and lived in a town near Philadelphia called Germantown. Germantown is now part of the city of Philadelphia. 

Soon Philadelphia was the largest city in North America. The first library and the first hospital in the country were built in Philadelphia. Many ships sailed in and out of the city's port, and people came to the city to buy and sell all sorts of things.

By the 1770s, people in North American were getting tired of being ruled by the British. They had to pay taxes to the British King, but they couldn't vote in the British elections. A lot of them decided that they would be better off with their own government, and met to talk about how to make the change. In 1774, for the first time, a group of men met in Philadelphia to talk about making a new government without a king. The English were not happy about this and soon there was a war between the Americans and the English, called the American Revolutionary War. In 1776, the Americans once again met in Philadelphia and signed the Declaration of Independence, which said that all men were equal and had the same rights. It said that if people had a bad government they had a right to change it. On July 4th, they rang the Liberty Bell to call all the people of Philadelphia to come and hear the Declaration, and they sent copies of it to all of the other cities in America. Later, when the Americans won the war, a group of them came to Philadelphia to write the United States Constitution which states the most important laws of the United States. 

One of the most famous people in Philadelphia at the time of the American Revolution was Benjamin Franklin. He started a newspaper and invented many things, such as bifocal glasses, that could be used to see things that were near and also things that were far away. He started a library that was free for everyone to use, and also a free hospital. He helped to write the Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitution. During the American Revolutionary War, he went to France to ask the French king to help the Americans win the war against the British. He was famous all over the world for his inventions and his ideas.

Philadelphia is in the state of Pennsylvania, named after William Penn. It is on the west bank of the Delaware River, across from New Jersey. Another big river, the Schuylkill, flows into the Delaware River at Philadelphia. The city has only a few small hills, and most of it is flat. The summers are usually hot in Philadelphia and the winters are cold. 

Philadelphia has a large art museum, the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It also has some smaller museums of art, such as the Academy of Fine Arts, and the Barnes Foundation. The Franklin Institute is a science museum named after Benjamin Franklin. The Philadelphia Orchestra is famous for its concerts. Some famous jazz musicians, such as John Coltrane, came from Philadelphia.

Independence National Historic Park is in the oldest part of Philadelphia. Most of the buildings from the time when American was fighting for its freedom are there. Independence Hall is where the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States were written. Nearby is a building where the Liberty Bell is kept. In the same neighborhood, there are many houses dating from the days of the American Revolution. Elfreth's Alley is one of the oldest streets in the United States. Christ Church is the church where many famous early Americans worshipped. 


</doc>
<doc id="17334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17334" title="The Clash">
The Clash

The Clash were an English punk band. The band was formed in London in 1976. The group was one of the most popular punk bands in England in the mid-1970s. Lead singer Joe Strummer died in December 2002.

Although The Clash are known as an early punk rock band, they were willing to experiment with different styles, which they added to their music. Some of these styles were ska, reggae, and funk. Lyrics in their songs often dealt with political issues or stories in the news.

In 2003, the band entered the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2004, "Rolling Stone" made a list of the Top 500 Rock Songs of All Time, and "London Calling", a song by The Clash, was listed as song #15 on the list. No song by a punk rock band was higher on the list.




</doc>
<doc id="17338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17338" title="Red Hot Chili Peppers">
Red Hot Chili Peppers

Red Hot Chili Peppers are an American rock band. The band started in 1983 in Los Angeles, California. The state of California has been a theme in many of their songs. The members of the band are singer Anthony Kiedis, bass guitarist Flea, guitarist Josh Klinghoffer, and drummer Chad Smith.

The Red Hot Chili Peppers have released nine studio albums. Their early albums were not very successful. The band's membership changed several times during the 1980s, but Kiedis and Flea have been with the band since it started. When Frusciante and Smith joined in 1989, Red Hot Chili Peppers' next album, "Mother's Milk", was successful. It was the band's first album to appear on the "Billboard" music chart. While Red Hot Chili Peppers were on tour in 1992 after their fifth album, "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", Frusciante left the band because of a drug addiction.

Dave Navarro became the new guitarist after Frusciante. Navarro and the other members of Red Hot Chili Peppers did not work together very well. The other members asked Navarro to leave the band in 1998, after one album. At this time, Frusciante had been making albums by himself. He was also suffering from a heroin addiction. When he was feeling better, Flea asked him to join Red Hot Chili Peppers again and Frusciante said yes. The band's next album, "Californication" (1999), was their most popular so far. Red Hot Chili Peppers kept recording and released another album soon afterwards. After this, the band went on a concert tour around the world. While they were doing so they released a best of album. After the tour, the band recorded and released the album "Stadium Arcadium" in 2006.

Red Hot Chili Peppers were originally called Tony Flow and the Miraculously Majestic Masters of Mayhem. The band was started in 1983 for a single performance. They were so popular that they were asked to come back again the next week. The first members of the band were Anthony Kiedis (singer), Flea (bass), Hillel Slovak (guitar), and Jack Irons (drums). They all knew each other from Fairfax High School in Los Angeles.

After becoming popular in Los Angeles, Red Hot Chili Peppers got a recording contract with record label EMI. Irons and Slovak thought Red Hot Chili Peppers was a side project. They left just before the first album to work more on their original band, "What Is This?". Kiedis and Flea did not think their band was a side project, and decided to look for new members. They hired guitarist Jack Sherman and drummer Cliff Martinez. Andy Gill, usually a guitarist, was hired to be a producer for the band's first album.

Their first album was called "The Red Hot Chili Peppers". It did not sell many copies, but it got the band a small number of dedicated fans. Critics such as Robert Christgau liked the album, but the tour that came after it did not do well. Sherman was fired by the band after the tour, and Slovak came back to replace him.

Red Hot Chili Peppers hired George Clinton to produce their second album, "Freaky Styley". They released the album in 1985. It was only a little bit more successful than the one before it. After the album, Martinez was fired from the band. After firing him, Kiedis said he thought that Martinez had wanted to leave. Red Hot Chili Peppers hired another drummer, Chuck Biscuits, but Irons came back to replace him. The band began work with producer Michael Beinhorn on a new album.

The album "The Uplift Mofo Party Plan" was released in 1987. It was the band's most successful so far. The album entered the "Billboard" 200 chart, but only at number 148. During this time, Kiedis and Slovak had problems with drugs. Slovak died on June 25, 1988. Because of this, Irons left the band. He said that he did not want to be part of a band where his friends were dying. Kiedis and Flea agreed to keep going with the band.

After Slovak died and Irons left the band, D. H. Peligro (from the band Dead Kennedys) and DeWayne "Blackbyrd" McKnight joined Red Hot Chili Peppers. Neither of these two worked very well with the band, so they were replaced. Peligro told a friend of his, John Frusciante, to audition to join the band. His audition went well and he joined as guitarist. A friend of the band then told them about Chad Smith. Smith had a very good audition and joined. During the recording of their next album, Frusciante argued with Michael Beinhorn, the producer. Beinhorn wanted Frusciante to play his guitar very loud, like heavy metal music, but Frusciante did not like this style.

Red Hot Chili Peppers' next album, "Mother's Milk", became very successful. It sold well and songs from it appeared often on radio. It also appeared on MTV, because the band did a popular cover of Stevie Wonder's song "Higher Ground". The album reached number 52 on the "Billboard" 200 chart, and was certified "gold" by the RIAA.

After "Mother's Milk", Red Hot Chili Peppers changed their record label to Warner Music. The band chose to work with Rick Rubin as their next producer. Rubin thought they needed to work somewhere other than a studio, so they decided to record their next album in a mansion he owned. Smith did not stay in the mansion because he thought it was a haunted house. The rest of the band did not leave the house for a month.

The name of the new album, "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", was taken from the tenth song on the album. It was chosen by Rubin because the band could not agree on a title. He chose the name because he thought "Blood Sugar Sex Magik" was the best song on the album. The first single from the album, "Give It Away", won a Grammy Award for "Best Hard Rock Performance". It was the band's first Grammy Award. "Give It Away" did well on the music charts. It was the band's first song to go to number one on the "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart. The second single, "Under the Bridge", was the band's most successful song; it charted on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart at number two. The other singles from the album also did well.

The band's success made life difficult for Frusciante, who also had a drug addiction. He quit the band while they were on tour in May 1992. He was replaced by Arik Marshall. Marshal was later replaced by Jesse Tobias. The band played at the Lollapalooza festival in 1992. They also appeared on an episode of "The Simpsons". Neither of the band's new members stayed for long. Tobias was replaced in 1993 by Dave Navarro, from the band Jane's Addiction.

Dave Navarro first appeared with the band at the 1994 Woodstock Festival. They found it hard to work with him. Flea said it was because of "the fact that we grew up listening to different music". Red Hot Chili Peppers spent three months in Hawaii making a new album, and "One Hot Minute" was released in 1995. Its content was sadder than the band's earlier albums. It also sounded more like hard rock than the band's earlier work.

During this time, Kiedis had troubles with the drug heroin again. Navarro also took drugs. At one practice session with the band, he fell over his amplifier because he was in an over-excited condition because he had taken too many drugs—he was "high". Because of this, the band asked Navarro to leave. They told the media it was "mutual" because the band members disagreed on the music they liked to make.

After leaving Red Hot Chili Peppers, Frusciante made some albums by himself. He also had an addiction to heroin. He was so addicted that he was close to poverty and death at times. Frusciante went into a clinic for therapy. The quality of his life slowly improved. In April 1998, Flea asked Frusciante to join the band again. The rest of the band were happy to see him return. Kiedis called it the "defining moment" of the band's career so far.
The band were happy to have Frusciante rejoin, but it was a while before they began making songs again. This was because he had sold all of his guitars for money to buy drugs with. It also took him a while to get used to playing music as part of a band again. The band released their seventh album, "Californication", in 1999. It had fewer songs based on rap and funk than their previous albums. The album focused more on melodic guitar riffs. "Californication" was very popular. It sold over 15 million copies. Three of the singles on the album, "Scar Tissue", "Otherside", and "Californication", reached number one on the Modern Rock Tracks chart.

After touring in Spring 2001, Red Hot Chili Peppers began recording a new album. The band chose to work with Rubin again. They recorded in band members' homes. Frusciante did a lot more work on recording the new album, "By the Way", than he had done on "Californication". "By the Way" was released in 2002. It was the best seller of any album by the band so far. It sold over one million copies in the first week in which it could be bought. The album was rated very highly on charts. Some people thought that the music on "By the Way" was similar to the music on "Californication". A review by "Blender" magazine called it "Californication 2, a reprise of their last album". However, "Entertainment Weekly" said "By the Way" was a lot more serious than "Californication". A review from "Stylus Magazine" said that Red Hot Chili Peppers showed no in making the album and that it was "stunningly awful".

In 2003, Red Hot Chili Peppers released a "best of" compilation album called "Greatest Hits". It had songs from the last five albums they released. It also had two new songs. The album got to number 18 on the "Billboard" 200 chart. The band also released two live video albums in 2003 and 2004; "Live at Slane Castle" and "Live in Hyde Park". The Red Hot Chili Peppers concerts at Hyde Park were the most profitable in 2004.

After releasing "By the Way", Red Hot Chili Peppers played concerts around the world for two years. In 2004, the band began recording a new album with Rubin. They first wrote 38 songs for this album. They had planned to release three different albums; one every six months. They later changed their minds and decided to make one album with two discs, and 28 songs in total. The two-disc album was called "Stadium Arcadium". The discs were called "Jupiter" and "Mars".
Red Hot Chili Peppers released "Stadium Arcadium" in 2006. It was their first album to be number one in the United States. It was also number one on two other "Billboard" charts and in 12 other countries. The album won the Grammy Award for "Best Rock Album" in 2006. "Dani California", the first single, won the award for "Best Rock Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal". The music on "Stadium Arcadium" was more mature than on previous albums, according to Tim Chester from "NME". He said this was because most of the band members had families. He also said, and Brian Hiatt from "Rolling Stone" agreed, that the songs on "Stadium Arcadium" were similar to the band's other work, and were not very original. However, both reviewers said the music was very good. In an Allmusic review, Stephen Thomas Erlewine said Flea and Frusciante did excellent work on the album. He also said that "the string instruments are the reason to listen to "Stadium Arcadium"". Erlewine agreed that the band had not done a lot of new things on the album, but instead did what they were good at.

A dash (—) means it did not appear on the chart.




</doc>
<doc id="17339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17339" title="Oasis (band)">
Oasis (band)

Oasis were an English rock band. They formed in Manchester, England in 1991. Before the band split in August 2009 people in the band were Noel Gallagher (lead guitar / vocals), Liam Gallagher (vocals), Colin 'Gem' Archer (rhythm guitar), Andy Bell (bass) and Chris Sharrock (drummer). Because the band is quite an old band they have had quite a few people play with them in the past. 
Liam Gallagher has announced that he is forming a new band called Beady Eye with Gem Archer, Andy Bell and Chris Sharrock. Noel Gallagher wants to be a solo artist.



</doc>
<doc id="17341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17341" title="Rush (band)">
Rush (band)

Rush is a Canadian rock band. They formed in the late 1960s in Toronto. The members of the group are Geddy Lee, the singer, who also plays the bass guitar and synthesizers, Alex Lifeson, who plays the guitar, and Neil Peart, who plays the drums.




</doc>
<doc id="17359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17359" title="Roy Hodgson">
Roy Hodgson

Roy Hodgson (born 9 August 1947) is an English football manager.


</doc>
<doc id="17361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17361" title="Guinness Book of World Records">
Guinness Book of World Records

The Guinness Book of World Records is a book published annually detailing the remarkable things of that people attempt, like eating a onion in the shortest time possible, or lifting a car, or even throwing a washing machine.
This book details other types of records too. 
It was first published in 1955 after the managing director of Guinness beer company wondered what the fastest game bird was while on a hunting trip.


</doc>
<doc id="17363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17363" title="Mime">
Mime

Mime is a type of acting that does not use words or speech. Mime is all about physical movement and exaggerating your expressions. Mimes (people who practice mime) must use their actions to send a message or tell a story. They are not allowed to speak directly to the audience. 

Probably the most well-known mime was Marcel Marceau.


</doc>
<doc id="17365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17365" title="Kangaroo">
Kangaroo

A kangaroo is an Australasian marsupial. It belongs to the genus "Macropus". The name Kangaroo is uded for the four large species, but there are another 50 species of smaller macropods. It is common in Australia and can also be found in New Guinea.

Kangaroos hop to move around quickly, and walk on four legs while moving slowly. They cannot walk backwards but they can hop or jump as far as about three times their own height. They can also swim if necessary. The kangaroo is a herbivore, eating mainly grass, but some species also eat shrubs.

Kangaroos are marsupials because they carry their young in a special pouch on their bodies. Baby kangaroos are called joeys. Kangaroos live in large groups, called mobs Each group is made up of breeding females, their young and several adult males. One of the males is the dominant male, he is the only one that breeds with the females in the mob.

Because it is mostly found in Australia, Australians see it as a national symbol. The kangaroo is featured holding the Australian coat of arms. The Australian airline, Qantas, uses the kangaroo as its emblem. The Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) also a has a kangaroo emblem.

Kangaroos can be dangerous because of their powerful legs. They can lean back on their tails to deliver powerful kicks. In 2009, a man went to save his dog which had chased a kangaroo into a farm dam. The kangaroo was able to hold the dog underwater nearly drowning it. The kangaroo gave the man several big kicks before he was able to grab his dog and escape from the dam. He needed hospital treatment for his injuries.

The word "kangaroo" is an Australian Aboriginal word from the Guugu Yimidhirr people of north Queensland. The word was recorded by Captain James Cook in August 1770. It was the name for the grey kangaroo, Macropus robustus. Cook's ship, the "HMS Endeavour", had been damaged on coral on the Great Barrier Reef. it took seven weeks for the ship to be repaired on the banks of a river, now the Endeavour River, at the site of the town of Cooktown. This gave Cook, Joseph Banks and other crew members time to explore the area and the plants and animals. The skin and skull of a kangaroo was taken back to England to be put on show. In James Boswell's book "Life of Johnson" he describes Dr. Samuel Johnson in 1793 hopping around the room to explain to people how a kangaroo moved. When Arthur Phillip and the First Fleet arrived in Sydney in 1788, they were surprised that the Aborigines did not know the word "kangaroo." It took them a while to realize that Aborigines at Sydney spoke a different language to those from Cooktown.

There are four species of kangaroos:


There are also about 50 other smaller macropods in the macropodidae family.


</doc>
<doc id="17366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17366" title="Harriet Tubman">
Harriet Tubman

Harriet Tubman (born Araminta Ross; c. 1820 or 1821 – March 10, 1913) was an African-American abolitionist, humanitarian, and Union spy during the American Civil War. She escaped from slavery and made 13 plans to help more than 70 slaves escape. She used the help of the Underground Railroad. The Underground Railroad was a series of houses where slaves could go to as they made their way to the northern United States where they would be free.

When she was a child in Maryland, Tubman was whipped and beaten by many different masters. When she was very young, an angry overseer threw a heavy metal weight at another slave, which accidentally hit her. This hurt her head very badly.

Her mother Rit (whose father might have been a white man) was a cook. Her father Ben was a talented woodsman who did the timber work on a plantation. They married around 1808. According to court records, they had nine children together. Linah was born in 1808, Mariah Ritty in 1811, Soph in 1813, Robert in 1816, Minty (Harriet) in 1822, Ben in 1823, Rachel in 1825, Henry in 1830, and Moses in 1832.



</doc>
<doc id="17368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17368" title="Device driver">
Device driver

A driver is a program that lets the operating system communicate with the computer hardware. 

Computer parts need a driver because they do not use standard commands. (Ex.: ATI and Nvidia graphic cards do the same jobs, but not the same way). Different operating systems also need different drivers, a driver written for Linux can not be used by Microsoft Windows. 

Many parts of a computer need drivers, but the most popular are:


Some other parts do not need drivers because they use a kind of standard; the operating system recognizes those parts and knows how to use those parts.


Using the wrong device driver can prevent hardware from working correctly. For example, a HP printer will not work with a computer that only has a Canon driver. Keeping drivers up-to-date avoids problems when using new programs (such as Windows Vista) with the piece of hardware.


</doc>
<doc id="17376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17376" title="Central processing unit">
Central processing unit

A central processing unit (CPU) is an important part of every computer. The CPU sends signals to control the other parts of the computer, almost like how a brain controls a body.

The CPU is an electronic machine that works on a list of things to do, called 'instructions'. It reads the list of instructions, one instruction at a time, and does each one in order. A list of instructions that a CPU can read is a computer program. A machine that can perform the job of a CPU is often called a Turing machine by mathematicians. 

The speed that a CPU works at is measured in "Hertz", "Hz", however modern processors run so fast that "Gigahertz", "GHz", is used. One gigahertz is one billion hertz.

Here are some of the basic things a CPU can do:


Even very complicated programs can be made by combining many simple instructions like these. This is possible because each instruction takes a very short time to happen. Many CPUs today can do more than 1 billion (1,000,000,000) instructions in a single second. In general, the more a CPU can do in a given time, the faster it is. One way to measure a processor's speed is MIPS. Flops and CPU clock speed (usually measured in gigahertz) are also ways to measure how much work a processor can do in a certain time. 

A CPU is built out of logic gates; it has no moving parts. The CPU of a computer is connected electronically to other parts of the computer, like the video card, or the BIOS. A computer program can control these peripherals by reading or writing numbers to special places in the computer's memory.

Some newer processors have "Multiple Cores". This means that they have many processors built on to the same chip so that they can do more than one thing at once.

While the individual cores might be slower than a single core processor, all the cores can work together to go faster. This means that the GHz might be lower, however the overall speed of the processor will be higher.

To make an analogy, think of cars;



</doc>
<doc id="17378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17378" title="Running of the Bulls">
Running of the Bulls

The Running of the Bulls (in Spanish el encierro, meaning "the enclosing") is an activity that involves running in front of bulls on a course of a sectioned-off area of a town's streets. It is done all around Spain, but the most famous running of the bulls is in Pamplona. In most bull runs the bulls are not killed, and they live for a whole season. This is a dangerous activity but very exciting. Safety varies in some places like Xabia the area is surrounded by cages that people can slip in and out of but the bulls can not.


</doc>
<doc id="17384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17384" title="Red shift">
Red shift

Red shift is a way astronomers use to tell the distance of any object that is very far away in the Universe. The red shift is one example of the Doppler effect. 

The easiest way to experience the Doppler effect is to listen to a moving train. As the train moves towards a person, the sound it makes as it comes towards them sounds like it has a higher tone, since the frequency of the sound is squeezed together a little bit. As the train speeds away, the sound gets stretched out, and sounds lower in tone. The same happens with light when an object that emits light moves very fast. An object, like a star or a galaxy that is far away and moving toward us, will look more blue than it normally does. This is called blue shift. A star or galaxy moving away from us will look more red than it should, which is where red shift got its name, since the colors are shifted red.

The reason astronomers can tell how far the light gets shifted is because certain chemical elements, like the calcium in bones or the oxygen people breathe has a unique fingerprint of light that no other chemical element has. They can see what colors of light are coming from a star, and see what it is made of. Once they know that, they check to see the difference between where the fingerprint, called spectral lines, are actually at, and then look at where they are supposed to be. When they see that, they can tell how far away the star is, whether it is moving toward us or away from us, and also how fast it is going, since the faster it goes, the farther the distance the spectral lines are from where they should be.

Red shift is important because astronomers used it to figure out that the Universe is expanding.



</doc>
<doc id="17385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17385" title="Spectral line">
Spectral line

Spectral lines are how scientists tell one element from another by looking at color.

In order to understand spectral lines, color has to be understood. In a rainbow, the colors of light go from purple to red. Several hundred years ago, the famous scientist Issac Newton did an experiment where he showed that even white light from the Sun was made up of all the colors of the rainbow. When other scientists following him looked at this rainbow very closely, they noticed that there were dark lines breaking up the rainbow, where certain shades of colors should be. These lines were very small, and could only be seen when the rainbow got streched out very far. They investigated this further, and discovered that certain chemical elements, like the hydrogen and helium that make up the Sun, absorbed certain frequencies of light where those colors should be, like a sponge absorbs water, but does not absorb chalk.

Soon, scientists discovered that when they heated up other chemical elements, like calcium and oxygen, so hot that they shined with a white light, they found similar lines, but in different places. No two chemical elements had these lines in exactly the same places along the rainbow, and they also soon discovered that could be used to be able to tell what stars were made up of in the Universe.

The reason the chemical elements can do this is because of the number and places of electrons orbiting around the center of each atom of each chemical element. These electrons, when light hits them, absorb a specific wavelength, or color of light, and what color they absorb depend on their position around the atom. Since each chemical element has a certain number of electrons, each chemical element has this unique set of spectral lines.

Since each set of spectral lines was unique, scientists could also be able to use this in a technique called red shift. Red shift is a method astronomers use, after they know what a star is made of, to tell how fast an object far away in the Universe is moving. It also tells them how far away it is, .


</doc>
<doc id="17387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17387" title="Godzilla">
Godzilla

Godzilla is a giant dinosaur-like fictional monster who first appeared in movies from Japan, starting in 1954. Since then he's starred in twenty-nine movies. During his movie career, this large reptile fought against several other mythical monsters, including the giant moth-like Mothra, the three-headed King Ghidorah, his own robotic mirror image Mechagodzilla, and several more enemies. The original Japanese name, "Gojira", is a combination of the words "gorilla" and "kujira" (means "whale"). The name was later changed for America to "Godzilla", and the name has stuck.


</doc>
<doc id="17389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17389" title="1090s">
1090s



</doc>
<doc id="17390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17390" title="1101">
1101



</doc>
<doc id="17391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17391" title="1137">
1137



</doc>
<doc id="17392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17392" title="1194">
1194





</doc>
<doc id="17393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17393" title="1207">
1207

1207 is a year in the 13th century.






</doc>
<doc id="17394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17394" title="The Pentagon">
The Pentagon

The Pentagon is a large building in Arlington, Virginia (near Washington, D.C.), that is the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense. It has five sides and with limestone walls. It is in the shape of a pentagon. It has seven floors. There are 23,000 people working in it.

The Pentagon is the biggest office building in the world, but you can reach any place in the building within 7 minutes.

They began building it on September 11 1941. Exactly sixty years later, on September 11 2001, it was hit with an airplane by terrorists. One hundred eighty-four people in the building were killed.
The Pentagon is has the most floor area of any building in the world. It has a total floor area of 6,500,000 sq ft (604,000 m). Offices are 3,700,000 sq ft (344,000 m). Approximately 23,000 military and civilian employees and about 3,000 non-defense support personnel work in the Pentagon. It has five sides, five floors above ground, two basement levels, and five ring corridors per floor with a total of of corridors. The Pentagon includes a five-acre (20,000 m) central plaza, which is shaped like a pentagon.

The concentric rings are named (from the center out) as "A" through "E" (with in addition "F" and "G" in the basement). "E" Ring offices are the only ones with outside views and are generally occupied by senior officials. Office numbers go clockwise around each of the rings, and have two parts: a nearest-corridor number (1 to 10) followed by a bay number (00 to 99), so office numbers range from 100 to 1099. These corridors radiate out from the central courtyard, with corridor 1 beginning with the Concourse's south end. Each numbered radial corridor intersects with the corresponding numbered group of offices (for example, corridor 5 divides the 500 series office block). There are a number of historical displays in the building, particularly in the "A" and "E" rings.

Floors in The Pentagon are lettered "B" for Basement and "M" for Mezzanine, both of which are below ground level. The concourse is located on the second floor at the metro entrance. Above ground floors are numbered 1 to 5. Room numbers are given as the floor, concentric ring, and office number (which is in turn the nearest corridor number followed by the bay number). So, office 2B315 is on the second floor, B ring, and nearest to corridor 3 (between corridors 2 and 3). One way to get to this office would be to go to the second floor, get to the A (innermost) ring, go to and take corridor 3, and then turn left on ring B to get to bay 15.

A person can walk between any two points in less than seven minutes.

Just south of the Pentagon are Pentagon City and Crystal City, extensive shopping and high-density residential districts in Arlington. Arlington National Cemetery is to the north. The Washington Metro Pentagon station is also located at the Pentagon, on the Blue and Yellow Lines. The Pentagon is surrounded by the complex Pentagon road network. Every day, thousands of commuters traveling between Arlington, Virginia and Washington, DC drive on the roads of the Pentagon Reservation.

The "Pentagon Athletic Center" (PAC) is a fitness center for military and civilian staff. It opened in a separate building on the north side of the Pentagon in 2004. Each year, the Pentagon grounds hold the Marine Corps Marathon and the Army Ten-Miler running events.

The public may take a 60 minute long tour of the building. Tourists also visit the Pentagon Memorial that is on the building's west side.

The pentagon has 


</doc>
<doc id="17395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17395" title="The Beach Boys">
The Beach Boys

The Beach Boys are a pop/surf rock group from Hawthorne, California. They formed in 1961, and the original members were Brian Wilson (keyboards, bass guitar), his brothers Dennis Wilson (drums) and Carl Wilson (lead guitar), their cousin Mike Love (lead vocals), and close friend Al Jardine (rhythm guitar). David Marks replaced Jardine when he went away to school; after Jardine's return Marks left the band. Bruce Johnston (keyboards) later became a regular band member, first replacing Brian Wilson on tour, then joining in on recording sessions. Many of the band's songs were about life in southern California, the beach, girls, cars, and surfing (though Dennis Wilson and Bruce Johnston were actually the only members in the group who surfed).

Their songs include "Good Vibrations", "Fun, Fun, Fun", "Help Me Rhonda", "Wouldn't It Be Nice" and "God Only Knows". Brian Wilson was influenced by people like Burt Bacharach and Phil Spector and started making music like theirs. Among critics and fans in most countries, the best-known Beach Boys album was their eleventh, "Pet Sounds", which featured this kind of music. In the United States, however, "Pet Sounds" was the first album since their first one to not get a gold certificate in sales, and peaked at number ten, lower than all but two of their previous albums.


</doc>
<doc id="17397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17397" title="Modem">
Modem

A Modem is a piece of computer hardware. It is used to communicate between distant computers. Two modems, one on each computer, are required to make a connection, and each modem can send and receive data to and from the other modem. The word modem stands for modulator - demodulator.

Modems are generally classified by the amount of data they can send in a given time, normally measured in bits per second (bit/s, or bps).
Pieces of data are sent from one modem to another modem at a set speed or rate. This rate is called the baud rate.
One baud is one bit per second.

There are 3 types of modems: internal modems, external modems, and PC card modems.
Commonly, modems are used to connect to the Internet through telephone service or cable service. Slow telephone service is called dial-up (maximum 56 kilobaud), faster telephone service is called DSL. DSL data transfer rates are comparable to cable service transfer rates.
A CEA study in 2006 found that dial-up Internet access is on a decline in the United States. In 2000, dial-up Internet connections accounted for 74% of all U.S. residential Internet connections. The number of dial-up modem users per capita in the U.S. has been more or less mirrored in Canada and Australia for the past 20 years.

Dial-up modem use in the US dropped to 60% by 2003, and in 2006 stood at 36%. Voiceband modems were once the most popular means of Internet access in the U.S. But as more homes adopted faster ways of accessing the Internet, the traditional 56K modem is losing popularity.


</doc>
<doc id="17398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17398" title="3DO">
3DO

3DO is the name of the video game consoles made by the 3DO company. They were released in 1993 and 1994. Its features were very ahead of its time. The 3DO was one of the worst-selling consoles in history because it was very expensive (The launch price was 700$) and other companies had cheaper systems. It was also not advertised very well, so no one knew about it. Some of the best games for it are "Alone in the Dark" and "Myst". The 3DO company also wanted to make another console called the M2, but it was never released.


</doc>
<doc id="17399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17399" title="APF-M1000">
APF-M1000

The APF-M1000 was a video game console made by APF in 1978. The controllers had numbers (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0 called a numeric keypad) and a joystick. With a joystick, the player moves the joystick and uses it to control the action in the game. It could only be used on a color TV. It came built-in with the game "Rocket Patrol".




</doc>
<doc id="17401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17401" title="Windsor, Ontario">
Windsor, Ontario

Windsor is a city in southern Ontario, Canada, which is across the Detroit River from the U.S. city of Detroit, Michigan. Windsor was founded in 1749 by the French. It has a population of 208 000 (counted in 2001).


</doc>
<doc id="17410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17410" title="QWERTY">
QWERTY

QWERTY refers to a certain typewriter or computer keyboard layout that is commonly used in some English-speaking countries. The term comes from the fact the first 6 letters of the top row of keys are Q, W, E, R, T, and Y. The QWERTY design was patented by Christopher Sholes in 1874 and sold to E. Remington and Sons during the same year.

The QWERTY layout was invented by Christopher Sholes, the inventor of the first modern typewriter. At first the letters on the typewriter were placed alphabetically. However, when the user of the typewriter learned to type quickly, the bars attached to letters became caught in one another, making the typist unstick the typebars with his hands. A business associate of Christopher named James Densmore gave the idea of splitting up the keys to speed up typing by preventing the typebars from striking the typewriter roller at the same time and sticking together. Some people say the QWERTY layout was created to slow down typing speed, while others say it worked by separating series of English letters.

QWERTY was made for the English language, therefore it has no accent marks. People from other countries that used accent marks had problems. Depending on the operating system and the application being used, accents marks could be accessed. e.g., hold down the Alt key, press 1, 5, and 6, then release the Alt key to generate a character numbered 156 in some character set. Or the Control or Alt key can be used together with a letter. In some word processors, like Microsoft Word, characters with accent marks could be found under a category named "Special Characters" or something similar.

Depending on where the QWERTY keyboard was made, the keyboard may look different.

The keyboards made in Belgium and France switch the letters Q and W with the letters A and Z. They also move the letter M to the right of L. These types of keyboards are called AZERTY keyboards.

Most belgian keyboards have the AZERTY keyboard layout, which is based on QWERTY.

Some of the keyboards in the Czech language use QWERTZ keyboards. They switch the Z and Y like the German version, but it uses "ů" to the right of L and ú next to P. The row that normally has numbers has the accents ě, š, č, ř, ž, ý, á, í, é. Instead, the person who uses the keyboard has to use the shift key to make numbers.

Danish and Norwegian layouts switched Æ, Ø, and Å where Swedish and Finnish the letters Ä and Ö.

Faroese keyboards add Æ and Ø next to L, and Å and Ð next to P.

German keyboards add an Ü to the right of P - and Ö, Ä to the right of L - and switch the Z and Y keys both because Z is a much more common letter than Y in German.

Icelandic layouts add Ð to the right of P, Æ to the right of L, Ö to the right of 0 in the top row and Þ to the rightmost place in the bottom row.

Italian typewriter keyboards use a QZERTY layout where Z is swapped with W and M is at the right of "L". Computers use a QWERTY keyboard with è to the right of P and ò to the right of L.

Lithuanian keyboards use a layout known as ĄŽERTY, where Ą appears in place of Q above A, Ž in place of W above S, with Q and W being available either on the far right side or by use of the Alt Gr key. Depending on the software used. Sometimes, Lithuanian symbols replace the numbers.

Portuguese keyboards maintain the QWERTY layout but add the key Ç. after the L key.The Spanish version has the letter Ñ, the Ç.

Romanian keyboards have a QWERTZ layout, swapping Y with Z. ă and î are added to the right of the letter P, while ş and ţ are added to the right of the letter L. â replaces the backslash character. Changes are also made to the upper number keys, the numbers remain the same, but some of the symbols are shuffled. The most notable change is that hyphen (-) is swapped with slash (/).

Spanish keyboards add ñ and Ñ characters to the right of the L instead of the semicolon and colon.

Turkish layouts add Ğ and Ü to the right of P, Ş and İ to the right of L, Ö and Ç to the right of M.


</doc>
<doc id="17414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17414" title="List">
List

A list is a part of a text, which has many words separated by commas (,) or a group of words going down the page that may use bullet points or numbers. Semi-colons (;) are also used sometimes to separate items in a list.

These are lists:

I have invited Peter, Mary and Henry to my birthday.

People who I have invited to my birthday are:

People I invited to my birthday: Peter; Mary; Henry.


</doc>
<doc id="17422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17422" title="Antimatter">
Antimatter

Antimatter is stuff within the universe that is the equal and opposite of matter. It looks just like matter and acts just like matter, but cannot touch matter. If the matter and the antimatter touch they will destroy each other and turn into energy.

In physics, all the elementary particles, or the basic building blocks of the things we can touch, come in pairs. Each particle has what is called an antiparticle, much like an evil twin, which may look and act just like the regular particle, except for one major difference. An example is the electron and the positron. They both weigh the same, and act the same, but the electron has a negative electrical charge, while the positron has a positive electrical charge, which is where the positron (positive + electron) gets its name.

Other antimatter particles are the same way, where they have the same weight, and look and act the same as regular particles, but their electrical charge is the opposite of regular particles. Antihydrogen, for example, has the positron, which is positively charged, orbiting around an antiproton, which is negatively charged, which is the opposite way regular hydrogen looks, which has the electron (negative charge), orbiting around a proton (positive charge).

Albert Einstein, a very famous scientist, found a formula that can tell how much energy a certain amount of something has, whether it is matter or antimatter. This formula is formula_1, and is one of the most well known equations. In simple terms, if you take the mass of something and then multiply it by the speed of light, and then multiply it by the speed of light again, you will get how much pure energy a given piece of something has. Since the speed of light is such a big number, this means that even a small amount of matter can have a lot of energy (it has been projected to be 4 times more effective per mass than nuclear fission).

Antimatter was predicted from the expanded form of formula_1, which is formula_3. You can take the square root of each side of the equation, since it is equal. However, any real square root has two answers. You can think of the negative root as being antimatter.

The reason this is important to understand antimatter is because scientists found that when matter and antimatter touch each other, the amount of energy that is released comes very close to the amount of energy formula_1 says should be all together in those two pieces. The reason is that each particle of matter, when it touches its antiparticle in the antimatter world, both change over into pure energy, or annihilate each other. This release of such a high amount of energy is why a lot of science fiction writers use antimatter for fuel in their stories. For example, author Dan Brown uses antimatter in "Angels and Demons" as a very powerful weapon, if only to make the story interesting. It is also being looked at as a fuel source for real-life missions to outer space in the future.

Many scientists think that in the first few moments after the Big Bang, which created the universe a very long time ago, both matter and antimatter were mixing together. Since there was just a little bit more matter than antimatter created (scientists still have not figured out why this happened yet), whatever was left over after most of the matter and antimatter annihilated into energy became the Universe we see today. Physicists do not yet know for sure that equal amounts of matter and antimatter were created, and because of this, they are also wondering where the antimatter went, and if any was left over from the beginning of the universe.

Because antimatter can make so much energy, it can be used for a lot of things, such as fuel for going into outer space, or in our cars. The problem is that antimatter is very very expensive to make, and is almost as expensive to store, since it cannot touch regular matter. It takes several hundred million dollars to make less than one-millionth of a gram of antimatter. In fact, it is the most expensive and rare substance on Earth. Since it is so expensive, this means that antimatter is not practical to use as a weapon or as an energy source, because so little of it is obtainable.

Recently, however, scientists have trapped antimatter for over 16 minutes (1000 sec. total).

It does have a use in medicine, because a special kind of scanner called the PET, which stands for positron emission tomography, uses positrons to go into the human body. Doctors can look at the way the positron changes into energy inside a person's body, and be able to tell if something is wrong inside a person. This kind of machine works differently than an X-ray machine or a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machine, and can help doctors see things that those other machines cannot see.


</doc>
<doc id="17425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17425" title="Minsk">
Minsk

Minsk or Miensk (Мінск (official spelling in Belarus), Менск; Минск ; Mińsk) is the capital and a major city of Belarus. 1.8 million people live in the city. Minsk is also a headquarters of the Commonwealth of Independent States. As a capital, Minsk has a special administrative status in Belarus and is also the capital of Minsk voblast (province) and Minsk raion. Minsk is situated by the Svislach and Niamiha rivers. The timezone in Minsk is GMT +2.

The oldest mentions of Minsk date back to the 11th century (1067). In 1326 Minsk became a part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and received its town privileges in 1499. From 1569 it was a capital of the Minsk Voivodship in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. It was annexed by Russia in 1793 as a consequence of the Second Partition of Poland. During 1919–1991 Minsk was the capital of the Byelorussian SSR.



</doc>
<doc id="17427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17427" title="Mercedes">
Mercedes

Mercedes:


</doc>
<doc id="17432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17432" title="1310s">
1310s



</doc>
<doc id="17433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17433" title="1326">
1326



</doc>
<doc id="17434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17434" title="1409">
1409



</doc>
<doc id="17436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17436" title="Chancellor of Germany">
Chancellor of Germany

The Chancellor of Germany (German: "Bundeskanzler", literally: "federal chancellor") is the leader of the government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Chancellor of Germany elected by the majority of the members of the Bundestag, the German parliament. The Chancellor is the German people's version of a Prime Minister or Premier.

The current chancellor is Angela Merkel (CDU), the first woman to be elected in this position.



</doc>
<doc id="17438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17438" title="Filipino American">
Filipino American

Filipino Americans are people with Filipino ethnicity that are born in the United States. It also can be a person from the Philippines who lives in the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="17439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17439" title="Mysore">
Mysore

Mysore is a city in Karnataka, India. Mysore is 140 k.m. south-west of Bangalore. Travel time from Bangalore to Mysore is 2-3 hours by road or rail.

Mysore Palace, Jaganmohan Palace, Chamundi Hills, Brindavan Gardens, and Mysore Zoo are the places to see in Mysore. Some people go to Mysore to see Dasara procession. 

People also go to Mysore to learn Yoga.


</doc>
<doc id="17440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17440" title="Kannada">
Kannada

Kannada (ಕನ್ನಡ) is a language. Most people in the southern Indian state of Karnataka speak Kannada. Do not confuse it with Canada. There are about 44 million people who speak the language.

Kannada is a Dravidian language. It is more than 1600 years old. Many words in Kannada are taken from Sanskrit. Kannada has gone through changes several times during the years. Kannada has been adapted to include many other languages. There are differences in this language between North Karnataka and South Karnataka. The surrounding states of Karnataka: Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Goa and Andhra Pradesh have a large number of Kannada speaking people.



</doc>
<doc id="17444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17444" title="1458">
1458



</doc>
<doc id="17445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17445" title="1461">
1461



</doc>
<doc id="17446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17446" title="1467">
1467



</doc>
<doc id="17447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17447" title="Arab League">
Arab League

The Arab League is an organization made up of countries in Northern Africa and Southwest Asia. Most, though not all of these countries use Arabic as their official language. The purpose is to find ways for the countries to have unity and to work together to solve their problems.

The organization has the Arabic Language as the language used in its summits, and all official papers, though it has never been stated by the Organization that Arabic is the Official Language. The Arab League was founded following the Protocol of Alexandria signed in the Year 1945, by seven Arab States, Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Trans-Jordan (Jordan). Today the Organization has 22 members, All countries adopting Arabic as an official language are members of the Organizations, but three, Israel, Eritrea and Chad.

The countries in the Arab League are:


</doc>
<doc id="17448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17448" title="1478">
1478



</doc>
<doc id="17451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17451" title="1613">
1613



</doc>
<doc id="17452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17452" title="1608">
1608



</doc>
<doc id="17453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17453" title="1577">
1577



</doc>
<doc id="17454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17454" title="1870s">
1870s




</doc>
<doc id="17455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17455" title="1501">
1501



</doc>
<doc id="17456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17456" title="Jon Voight">
Jon Voight

Jon Voight (born December 29, 1938) in Yonkers, New York. He is a famous American actor. His daughter, Angelina Jolie, and son, James Haven, are also well-known actors.


</doc>
<doc id="17461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17461" title="Category:1923 deaths">
Category:1923 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17462" title="Pants">
Pants

Trousers (British English) or pants (American English) are clothing that one wears on the legs, like jeans or formal pants, which generally cover the whole leg (not like shorts, which do not cover the whole leg). There are also capris. These are a combination of pants and shorts. And should be worn over the bum (British English) or fanny (American English).


</doc>
<doc id="17465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17465" title="Eugene McCarthy">
Eugene McCarthy

Eugene Joseph "Gene" McCarthy (March 29, 1916 – December 10, 2005) was a United States senator from Minnesota. He ran for President of the United States five times.


</doc>
<doc id="17466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17466" title="Arnold Schwarzenegger">
Arnold Schwarzenegger

Arnold Schwarzenegger (born July 30, 1947, in Austria) is a Austrian-American bodybuilder and an actor and was a governor of the American state of California. He lives in Los Angeles, California.

After he had been in army, Arnold moved to Munchen. There he often slept in a gym because he didn't have home.

Schwarzenegger moved to the United States in 1968 and later became an actor. He has acted in many movies, including the "The Terminator" series.

In 1971, Schwarzenegger's half-brother died in a car accident. He was driving while drunk. 

In 2003, when Gray Davis was recalled (removed from political office), Schwarzenegger won his seat for governor of California. He left office in January 2011, and was replaced by Jerry Brown.

Schwarzenegger married Maria Shriver in 1986; they separated in 2011. They have two daughters, Katherine and Christina, and two sons, Patrick and Christopher. Schwarzenegger has a aon by another woman. 

Before he was an actor, Schwarzenegger was a bodybuilder and won the Mister Olympia title seven times. Schwarzenegger also set his own competition, Arnold Classic.



</doc>
<doc id="17468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17468" title="Category:Austrian people">
Category:Austrian people


</doc>
<doc id="17470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17470" title="Holy Spirit">
Holy Spirit

The Holy Spirit, or Holy Ghost, is a part of the triune godhead (three in one God) of Christianity. 

The Holy Spirit was there from the beginning. Genesis 1:2 says that the Holy Spirit helped create the Earth.

It was by the Holy Spirit that Jesus was conceived in Mary (Matthew 1:18,19).

When Jesus had finished his ministry on Earth, he told his followers that he would provide "another Comforter" (helper), who would lead them, into truth (John 14:16), and would be their teacher to tell them things that Jesus had not told them, but that they needed to know to continue to live for God. 

The second chapter of the book of Acts tells how on the 50th day after Passover (called Pentecost), and 10 days after Jesus ascended to Heaven, Jesus' followers were gathered at the feast. While they were praying, the Holy Spirit came upon them. They began to speak in other languages (tongues).

While most Christians believe that the Holy Spirit is in them from the time they become born again, in Pentecostal denominations, such as The Assembles of God, it is believed that speaking in unknown tongues can still be an expression of the Holy Spirit, and that it is proof that a person has received the baptism of the Holy Spirit. 


</doc>
<doc id="17473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17473" title="Internet Protocol">
Internet Protocol

The Internet Protocol is a set of rules for sending information between computers on the Internet. Each computer that uses the Internet Protocol has at least one IP address that identifies it to all other devices on the planet, just like a person might have a postal address.

This set of rules is like a language, but in Computer science they call it protocol. A board of engineers has defined some of those protocols, which sit on top of each other (that's called "layered architecture"). On top of the Internet protocol there is the Transmission Control Protocol and the User Datagram Protocol (and some others). Below it, there are protocols of the Network layer, like Ethernet.

At the moment there are two versions of the Internet Protocol. One is called IP Version 4 ("IPv4"), the other one is called IP Version 6 ("IPv6").

An IP address is a number given to each computer on the internet. It is like a postal address or telephone number, but for the computer. Internet protocol (IP) defines how communication from one address to another work.

Some computers have the same IP address for a very long time. These IP addresses are called "static IP addresses". Some computers change their IP from time to time. These IP addresses are called "dynamic IP addresses".

With IPv4, each address consists of four numbers, called octets. They go from 0 to 255. To make an IP address, one takes 4 such numbers. To translate between an IP address and the name of the computer, a system called Domain Name System is used. It can translate between the name and the IP Address.

An IPv4 address could look something like this

With IPv4, some addresses are reserved for special purposes. For example, "127.0.0.1" how the computer a user is working on looks at itself.

Also, there are special meanings associated with two different ending numbers. In general, a last number of 0 stands for the network (called "base address"), and a last number of 255 stands for all hosts on that network (called "broadcast address"). Computers that are on the same local network share 3 of the 4 numbers. A computer can be on more than one network. It can also have several names.

In the early stages of development of the Internet Protocol, network administrators interpreted an IP address in two parts, network number portion and host number portion. The highest order octet (most significant eight bits) in an address was designated the "network number" and the rest of the bits were called the "rest field" or "host identifier" and were used for host numbering within a network. This method soon proved inadequate as additional networks developed that were independent from the existing networks already designated by a network number. In 1981, the Internet addressing specification was revised with the introduction of classful network architecture.

Classful network design allowed for a larger number of individual network assignments. The first three bits of the most significant octet of an IP address was defined as the "class" of the address. Three classes ("A", "B", and "C") were defined for universal unicast addressing. Depending on the class derived, the network identification was based on octet boundary segments of the entire address. Each class used successively additional octets in the network identifier, thus reducing the possible number of hosts in the higher order classes ("B" and "C").

The following table gives an overview of this now obsolete system.

Unfortunately, IPv4 does not have enough addresses to cover the demand for all the computers and other internet devices that the world now uses. This is why there is now a new solution - IPv6

IP Version 6 uses 16 octets (128 bits). So instead of 4 numbers there are now 16 numbers. Also IPv6 addresses are usually written as hexadecimal numbers (8 hexadecimal numbers). They are separated by colons (:), so an IPv6 address might look like this

There are two address compression techniques available:
Leading zeroes can be left out. 
-- thus 2001:0db8:00b8:0008:0000:0000:0000:0001 could be written as 2001:db8:b8:8:0:0:0:1
Any number of sequential, all-zero 'chunks' may be compressed to simply :: - but note that this can only be done one time per address.
-- thus 2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0001 could be written (fully compressed) as 2001:db8::1



</doc>
<doc id="17474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17474" title="1850s">
1850s




</doc>
<doc id="17476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17476" title="1479">
1479



</doc>
<doc id="17477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17477" title="1505">
1505



</doc>
<doc id="17478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17478" title="Akihito">
Akihito

Akihito became emperor after the death of his father in 1989, who was Emperor Shōwa. The current emperor's official reign name is "Heisei" ("establishing peace"). 

The emperor has many duties and responsibilities. For example, he regularly

As a personal interest, Akihito studies fish.

Ahihito directly addressed his subjects in a television broadcast after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. This was the first time any emperor used on television in this way.





</doc>
<doc id="17480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17480" title="1133">
1133



</doc>
<doc id="17481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17481" title="1265">
1265



</doc>
<doc id="17483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17483" title="Aero Space Museum">
Aero Space Museum

The Aero Space Museum is an airplane museum in Calgary in Canada. The museum, founded in 1975, is near the Calgary Airport.

Some things at the museum are war-time airplanes: a Sopwith Triplane from World War I and an Avro Lancaster from World War II.
There are also peace-time airplanes made by Cessna and de Havilland, and a helicopter made by Sikorsky. The museum also has a large library of flying information available for people to read and look at.



</doc>
<doc id="17486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17486" title="Category:Aircraft museums">
Category:Aircraft museums


</doc>
<doc id="17487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17487" title="Canadian Museum of Flight">
Canadian Museum of Flight

The Canadian Museum of Flight is an aircraft museum at the Langley Airport in Langley, British Columbia, Canada. The museum has about 20 peace-time and war-time motor airplanes, gliders, and helicopters to see, six of which can still fly.



</doc>
<doc id="17489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17489" title="Olympic Flight Museum">
Olympic Flight Museum

The Olympic Flight Museum is an aircraft museum at the Olympia Airport in Olympia, Washington, USA. The museum has more than 20 airplanes and helicopters to see, most of which can still fly.



</doc>
<doc id="17490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17490" title="San Diego Aerospace Museum">
San Diego Aerospace Museum

San Diego Aerospace Museum is an aircraft and space exploration museum in San Diego, California, USA. It contains many original and copies of old aircraft and spacecraft, including:




</doc>
<doc id="17491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17491" title="Category:Museums in California">
Category:Museums in California

Museums in California, USA.


</doc>
<doc id="17492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17492" title="Category:Museums in Washington">
Category:Museums in Washington

Museums in Washington, USA.


</doc>
<doc id="17493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17493" title="Pearson Air Museum">
Pearson Air Museum

The Pearson Air Museum is an airplane museum at Pearson Field Airport in Vancouver, Washington, USA. The museum and Pearson Field, and the Fort Vancouver National Historic Site, are all part of the Vancouver National Historic Reserve.

The Pearson Air Museum shows different kinds of unusual, special, and historic airplanes. For example, an experimental and one-of-a-kind aircraft known as the "flying pickle" originally based at Watts Airport (or Bernard's Airport), is shown at the Pearson. Alley reports on this special airplane based at Watts Airport in 1929, that was an experimental one-of-a-kind model. In this aircraft the pilot sits in an open air compartment, behind a roomy enclosed passenger cabin.



</doc>
<doc id="17494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17494" title="Newfoundland and Labrador">
Newfoundland and Labrador

Newfoundland and Labrador is a province on the East Coast of Canada, and is the farthest east of all Canadian provinces and territories. The capital of Newfoundland and Labrador is St. John's. In 2001, 533,800 people lived in Newfoundland and Labrador.

Newfoundland is an island, while Labrador is within the mainland of Canada and on a border with Quebec.

The province of Newfoundland and Labrador was originally called Newfoundland and joined Canada in 1949, becoming the newest province of Canada, after being a colony of the United Kingdom. Until an agreement was reached in 1927, Quebec also claimed Labrador. 

In 2001, the name of Newfoundland changed to its new official name, Newfoundland and Labrador, while the postal code abbreviation changed from NF to NL. The island of Newfoundland, and part of Labrador, are in a time zone that is a half hour off from any other part of North America.


</doc>
<doc id="17495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17495" title="Greenfinch">
Greenfinch

Greenfinch is a kind of small bird. There is an European kind of Greenfinch and an Oriental kind of Greenfinch.

It nests in trees or bushes, laying 3-5 (Oriental) or 3-8 (European) eggs.


</doc>
<doc id="17496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17496" title="St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador">
St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador

St. John's is the capital of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. It is also the largest city in the province, with 100,646 people living there since 2006.

There is a large university in St. John's, so the city is home to many students.

Close to St. John's is Cape Spear, the easternmost point in North America.


</doc>
<doc id="17497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17497" title="Nest">
Nest

A nest is place animals build to hold their eggs and/or provide a place to raise their babies. Many times they are made of things like twigs, grass, mud, and leaves; or they may simply be a low place in the ground, or a hole in a tree, rock, or building.

Some mammals, some fish, and some reptiles also build nests (to raise their babies).



</doc>
<doc id="17498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17498" title="Egg (biology)">
Egg (biology)

This use of the term egg deals with the fertilised ovum, the zygote, and what surrounds it during its development.

Some animals, mostly mammals, keep the zygote inside their body where the embryo grows until it is ready to be born. Other animals (tetrapods) lay a protective "egg" outside the mother. The egg nourishes and protects the embryo. When the baby animal is ready, it "hatches"; that means it comes out of the egg.

Reptiles, birds and monotremes lay cleidoic eggs, like a chicken's egg. Other mammals form similar eggs, but without the shell. They develop internally. Fish, amphibia, insects and arachnids lay simpler eggs in greater numbers, but with much less protection and nourishment.

The ostrich has the largest eggs of all currently living animals. Eggs, mostly bird eggs, are often eaten as food. The shell of an egg is a hard calcareous (CaCO) material. The shell of an ostrich egg can support the weight of a fully grown human.



</doc>
<doc id="17499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17499" title="Javan tiger">
Javan tiger

The Javan tiger ("Panthera tigris sondaica") is 1 of 3 extinct types of tigers. It lived on the island of Java in Indonesia. It became extinct in the 1970s-1990s. The last known sighting of one was in 1972.



</doc>
<doc id="17505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17505" title="1518">
1518



</doc>
<doc id="17506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17506" title="1528">
1528



</doc>
<doc id="17507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17507" title="1529">
1529



</doc>
<doc id="17508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17508" title="Abacus">
Abacus

An abacus is a very old tool used for arithmetic. It is still used in some parts of the world. Sometimes blind people will use an abacus, because they can feel the numbers easily. The most common abacuses work by moving beads on rods.

Abacuses can do addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and people can use them to find the square root of whole numbers. Expert, or very good, abacus users can sometimes do math quicker than basic calculators. There is a common Chinese abacus. This abacus is split into two kinds of basic rows, the top is for the "5"s, and the bottom is for the "ones". There are one or two beads in the top rows, and four or five beads in the bottom ones. For example, 8 is one bead on top and 3 below, because 5 + 3 = 8. Every column represents a different digit. 





</doc>
<doc id="17509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17509" title="1573">
1573




</doc>
<doc id="17510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17510" title="1606">
1606





</doc>
<doc id="17511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17511" title="1547">
1547





</doc>
<doc id="17512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17512" title="Accordion">
Accordion

An accordion is a musical instrument that has keys similar to a piano, but is small enough for a person to hold, and makes sounds using air pushed and pulled through reeds using a bellows. The accordion can also have buttons instead of keys. The 6-plus-6-system with three rows has the same fingering in all twelve scales.

The accordion was invented in 1822 in Germany by Friedrich Buschmann.


</doc>
<doc id="17513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17513" title="499 BC">
499 BC


</doc>
<doc id="17514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17514" title="1781">
1781





</doc>
<doc id="17515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17515" title="1566">
1566




</doc>
<doc id="17516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17516" title="1714">
1714





</doc>
<doc id="17517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17517" title="1841">
1841






</doc>
<doc id="17518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17518" title="Georg Agricola">
Georg Agricola

Georg or Georgius Agricola (1494-1555) was a German scholar and scientist. He was one of the first people to study mining and minerals (stones and gems).


</doc>
<doc id="17519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17519" title="1440">
1440



</doc>
<doc id="17520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17520" title="1457">
1457




</doc>
<doc id="17521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17521" title="1428">
1428





</doc>
<doc id="17522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17522" title="1525">
1525





</doc>
<doc id="17523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17523" title="1489">
1489


</doc>
<doc id="17524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17524" title="1494">
1494





</doc>
<doc id="17526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17526" title="Category:1555 deaths">
Category:1555 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17527" title="Category:1555">
Category:1555


</doc>
<doc id="17528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17528" title="Amiga CD32">
Amiga CD32

The Amiga CD32 was a game console made by Commodore International. It was based on the A1200 computer. It was basically a computer without the computer's main parts. It could support other things that could make it into a computer. It had CD-rom drive and could play CD32 games. They did not make many CD32 games.

It did not do very well.


</doc>
<doc id="17530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17530" title="GX4000">
GX4000

The GX4000 was a console made by Amstrad in 1990. At first, it was successful. But it di not continue its early success. The GX4000 games could be used with other Amstrad computers. Only 40 games were made for it. Soon it disappeared into the mist of history. These days it is very rare to see one that is still in working condition.


</doc>
<doc id="17531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17531" title="Category:Venezuela">
Category:Venezuela


</doc>
<doc id="17532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17532" title="Category:Venezuelan people">
Category:Venezuelan people


</doc>
<doc id="17533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17533" title="Category:1830 deaths">
Category:1830 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17534" title="Category:1783 births">
Category:1783 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1783.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="17535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17535" title="ApeXtreme">
ApeXtreme

ApeXtreme is a console created by Apex Digital Inc. It was released January 9, 2004.

It can do many things, like play computer games, DVDs, CDs, VCDs and use the Internet.

What it can do:


</doc>
<doc id="17536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17536" title="Category:1613">
Category:1613


</doc>
<doc id="17537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17537" title="Category:1606">
Category:1606


</doc>
<doc id="17538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17538" title="Category:1608">
Category:1608


</doc>
<doc id="17539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17539" title="Category:1573">
Category:1573


</doc>
<doc id="17540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17540" title="Category:1577">
Category:1577


</doc>
<doc id="17541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17541" title="Category:1566">
Category:1566


</doc>
<doc id="17542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17542" title="Category:1525">
Category:1525


</doc>
<doc id="17543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17543" title="Category:1529">
Category:1529


</doc>
<doc id="17544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17544" title="Category:1518">
Category:1518


</doc>
<doc id="17545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17545" title="Category:1501">
Category:1501


</doc>
<doc id="17546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17546" title="Category:1479">
Category:1479


</doc>
<doc id="17547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17547" title="Category:1478">
Category:1478


</doc>
<doc id="17549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17549" title="Category:1458">
Category:1458


</doc>
<doc id="17550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17550" title="Category:1440">
Category:1440


</doc>
<doc id="17551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17551" title="Category:1428">
Category:1428


</doc>
<doc id="17552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17552" title="Category:1420s">
Category:1420s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1420s which begins in the year 1420 and ends in the year 1429.


</doc>
<doc id="17554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17554" title="Category:1207">
Category:1207


</doc>
<doc id="17555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17555" title="Category:1194">
Category:1194


</doc>
<doc id="17559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17559" title="Template:Imdb name/doc">
Template:Imdb name/doc

This is a template to generate links to the Internet Movie Database. This template should be used exclusively for "NAMES", that is, actors, directors, producers, and etc.

If you need to link a title (movie, TV show, video game, etc.), use instead.

= Instructions =


Note: If the name is not specified, the name of the article will be used as the name of the person.

The result is 

Note that, since this will almost certainly go in the "Other websites" section, you should add a * before the template text to include it as a list item.

Add any discussion about this template on , as a new section.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="17573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17573" title="1617">
1617


</doc>
<doc id="17575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17575" title="1623">
1623





</doc>
<doc id="17576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17576" title="1556">
1556





</doc>
<doc id="17577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17577" title="1625">
1625



</doc>
<doc id="17578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17578" title="1561">
1561


</doc>
<doc id="17588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17588" title="New Year's Day">
New Year's Day

New Year's Day is a holiday in many countries, created to welcome the New Year. In the United States and most other countries in the world, New Year's Day is January 1.
The New Year is an event that happens when a culture celebrates the end of one year and the beginning of the next. Cultures that measure yearly calendars all have New Year celebrations.

The ancient Roman calendar had only ten months and started the year on 1 March, which is still reflected in the names of some months which derive from Latin: September (seventh), October (eighth), November (ninth), December (tenth). 

Around 713 BC the months of January and February were added to the year, traditionally by the second king, Numa Pompilius, along with the leap month Intercalaris. The year used in dates was the consular year, which began on the day when consuls first entered office — fixed by law at 15 March in 222 BC, but this event was moved to 1 January in 153 BC. In 45 BC, Julius Caesar introduced the Julian calendar, dropping Intercalaris; however, 1 January continued to be the first day of the new year.

In Christmas Style dating the new year started on 25 December. This was used in Germany and England until the thirteenth century, and in Spain from the fourteenth to the sixteenth century. 

In Annunciation Style dating the new year started on 25 March, the feast of the Annunciation. This was used in many parts of Europe in the Middle Ages, and was the style introduced by Dionysius Exiguus in AD 525. Annunciation Style continued to be used in the Kingdom of Great Britain until January 1, 1752, except Scotland which changed to Circumcision Style dating on 1 January 1600. The rest of Great Britain changed to Circumcision Style on the 1 January preceding the conversion in Great Britain from the Julian calendar to the Gregorian calendar on 3/14 September 1752. 



</doc>
<doc id="17597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17597" title="Wlazł kotek na płotek">
Wlazł kotek na płotek

Wlazł kotek na płotek (in English: "a kitten climbed a fence") is a popular Polish children's song. 

Original [Polish]
Wlazł kotek na płotek i mruga,
ładna to piosenka niedługa.
Nie długa, nie krótka, lecz w sam raz.
Zaśpiewaj koteczku jeszcze raz.

[English]
A kitten sits on the fence and it blinks.
It’s a very pretty song, and it’s not a long one.
Not a long one, not a short one, but just right.
Come on, little kitten, sing again.


</doc>
<doc id="17599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17599" title="Alopecia">
Alopecia

Alopecia is a condition which is found in humans, as well as in some animals. When it occurs, it will mean that those affected will permanently lose some (or all) of their hair. Since some of the factors are linked to the genes on the chromosome, the condition can be seen more often with men, than with women. People who have the condition will become bald

Alopecia areata is the name for a condition in which a person suddenly loses his or her hair. It mostly happens to men, who become bald.


</doc>
<doc id="17600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17600" title="Asthma bronchiale">
Asthma bronchiale

Asthma (or Asthma bronchiale) is a common disease of the lungs. It makes it hard for people to breathe. People can never grow out of asthma, it is a lifelong condition. The lungs and throat are constantly irritated (puffy and swollen). People with asthma produce more mucus than normal people and the muscles that wrap around their lungs are very sensitive. An asthma attack is when something (known as a trigger) causes the sensitive lungs to tighten and produce more mucus than normal. The more irritated the lungs the more tight the lungs become. Eventually leading to death. Asthma attacks are considered very serious emergencies by doctors.

Asthma attacks are treated with rescue medication inhalers (or nebulizers) that the person breathes into their lungs. Asthma attacks are not always easy to spot; children are especially hard to tell how bad the asthma attack is. 
Things to pay attention to are things like: 

Asthma attacks can be caused by exercise, pets, allergies or many other triggers. Asthma attacks can be dangerous. Doctors call the worst attacks status asthmaticus, and usually admit the person to an special room in a hospital. 
A trigger is anything that causes asthma to get worse. Asthma is not something that ever goes away so the lungs are always irritated and sensitive. Triggers cause the lungs to tighten. Common triggers are things like: 

The way to avoid triggers is to get rid of them if possible.

Asthma can be controlled most often by avoiding contact with triggers and by using certain drugs. Most asthma sufferers carry special medicines around with them. These are called inhalers. The medicine inside the inhaler opens the tubes that go to the lungs. The inhaler is usually used to prevent an asthma attack, or to stop an attack that is already happening.

Rescue medicine — A rescue medicine is an inhaler ("puffer") that is used if a person thinks they are having an asthma attack.

Controller medicine — A controller medicine is a medicine in either a pill or an inhaler taken every day to prevent asthma attacks.

Hospitals have other options they can use in an emergency when the regular treatments don't work:


</doc>
<doc id="17608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17608" title="Category:Pokémon">
Category:Pokémon


</doc>
<doc id="17609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17609" title="1690">
1690





</doc>
<doc id="17610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17610" title="890">
890





</doc>
<doc id="17611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17611" title="Bochum">
Bochum

Bochum is a city in the Ruhr area of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany. It is part of the Arnsberg Government Region

Bochum has about 380,000 inhabitants.
The city is formed by the traditional industry of coal mining in the Ruhr area, but today there is no mining in Bochum anymore.

Today the most important institution in Bochum is the Ruhr-University Bochum, one of the biggest German universities.
It has an extremely wide spectrum of subjects, beginning with mathematics and science, social sciences, economy, engineering, laws, philosophy, historical subjects, theology, medicine, and languages even including Chinese and Polish.

Bochum has a rich cultural life and its theatre is one of the most prominent in Germany. Next to Bochum are the cities Essen and Hattingen


</doc>
<doc id="17614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17614" title="Progressive rock">
Progressive rock

Progressive rock is a type of rock music with complicated musical technique and composition. This means that the tempo, time signature, and style can change many times in a single song. 

Most normal rock songs follow a very simple pattern in the way they are arranged. This pattern is a verse followed by a chorus, then a different verse, and then the same chorus. Progressive rock is more complicated than this, and can require more skill to play.

Progressive rock was first made in the late 1960's, but became most popular in the 1970's. It continues to be popular today, too. Progressive rock began in England and spread throughout Europe. It remains most popular in Europe, but there are several notable American and Canadian progressive rock bands, as well. This genre was influenced by classical music and jazz fusion. Over the years, different sub-genres of progressive rock have been created, such as symphonic rock, art rock, math rock, and progressive metal.

Progressive rock artists wished to create music that was not within the limitations of popular rock and pop music. They wished to "progress" rock to the complexity of jazz and classical music and create a more serious, complex, and sophisticated type of rock music. Some progressive rock bands include influences from folk music, world music, and jazz or jazz fusion.

Progressive rock bands write and play songs that change very much during each song. Regular rock songs have verses and a chorus, but progressive songs can have many different sections. For example, instead of having verses and choruses, progressive rock songs may have many different musical themes, solos, and musical moods. A typical progressive song might have a form such as: Introduction-Verse-Chorus-instrumental section-New verse-New choir-Instrumental section-Ending.
That is why many progressive rock songs are not played on the radio very often.

Important progressive rock bands from the 1970s were Jethro Tull; Yes; Genesis; Pink Floyd; Emerson, Lake & Palmer; Rush; Gentle Giant; Van der Graaf Generator, and King Crimson.

Progressive rock is difficult to define, because progressive rock bands are often play different types of progressive rock music that sound different. There are some common elements that are in most progressive rock band music, such as long, complex songs, unusual time signatures, unusual instruments or ways of using them, and use of improvisation, which means making up or inventing music while playing on stage.


</doc>
<doc id="17619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17619" title="San Juan, Puerto Rico">
San Juan, Puerto Rico

San Juan is the capital city of Puerto Rico. The city's population is 433,733. It is the 42nd-largest city and the oldest European settlement in United States territory. Today, San Juan is Puerto Rico's most important seaport.

San Juan was founded in 1521. It was named after San Juan Bautista, or St. John the Baptist (name given by Christopher Columbus). San Juan is also known as "La Ciudad Amurallada". This means the "walled city". San Juan has many old buildings still standing today. Many Spanish explorers came during the European Exploration period and built forts, churches, and other historical buildings. An example of a very old fort is "La Fortaleza". It is also known as "Palacio de Santa Catalina". In the sixteenth century, it was a Spanish fortress against Caribs. These were the people native to the Caribbean islands and Central America. Another old building is the oldest residence in Old San Juan, Casas de los Contrasfuertes (House of Buttresses).


</doc>
<doc id="17620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17620" title="Kashmir">
Kashmir

Kashmir (Urdu: کشمیر, Kashmiri: کٔشِیر), also known as Cashmere, is a region in South-central Asia. The term Kashmir historically was described as the valley just to the south of the western end of the Himalayan mountain range. Today, Kashmir refers to a much larger area that includes the regions of Kashmir Valley, Jammu region and Ladakh. The main "Valley of Kashmir" is a low fertile area surrounded by mountains and fed by many rivers. People like it for its natural beauty and simple lifestyle. Kashmir is also a Disputed Territory. Pakistan, India and China hold parts of this region.

The economy of the region is focused on agriculture. People grow rice there. In the Indian part they also grow corn, such as wheat and barley. Its climate is different from that of most of the Indian subcontinent: It is milder. Therefore, crops like artichoke, cauliflower, cabbage and certain kinds of beans are also grown. 

Cashmere wool is well-known almost anywhere in the world. Cashmere wool is wool from Cashmere goats. Because of conflicts over the territory however, most Cashmere wool no longer comes from Kashmir.

Kashmir is home to the finest saffron in the world.

Tourism has been important in Kashmir for many years. Many people call the region "Paradise on Earth". Tourists visit Kashmir from all over the world irrespective of nationality and religion. In spite of a drop in footfalls due to terrorism in the last decade, Kashmir still remains one of the most sought after tourist destinations.

What is known as the Kashmir conflict has existed since India and Pakistan became independent states. On October 20, 1947, tribesmen backed by Pakistan invaded Kashmir. The Maharaja of Jammu & Kashmir initially fought back but on 27 October appealed for assistance to the Governor-General Louis Mountbatten, who agreed on the condition that the ruler accede to India. Once the papers of accession to India were signed, Indian soldiers entered Kashmir with orders to stop any further occupation, but they were not allowed to expel anyone from the state. India took the matter to the United Nations. The UN resolution asked Pakistan to vacate the areas it has occupied and asked India to assist the U.N. Plebiscite Commission to organize a plebiscite to determine the will of the people. Pakistan refused to vacate the occupied areas.

Today Kashmir is split, as follows:

India and Pakistan have fought several wars over Kashmir. In 1949 and 1972 they agreed on a border for most of the Territories (except for the Siachen Glacier). This demarcation line which marks the border between India and Pakistan is known as Line of Control. It is guarded by Indian and Pakistani troops.

The border between Aksai Chin, held by China, and Jammu and Kashmir, held by India is known as Line of Actual Control.

Another reason behind the dispute over Kashmir is water. Many rivers start in Kashmir. Some of them are tributaries of the Indus River basin, such as the Jhelum and Chenab River. These flow into Pakistan. Other rivers like the Ravi, Beas River and the Sutlej irrigate northern India. Pakistan has been apprehensive that in a dire need India under whose portion of Kashmir lies the origins and passage of the said rivers, would use its strategic advantage and withhold the flow and thus choke the agrarian economy of Pakistan.

One of the origins of the conflict is that with the Boundary Award of 1947, many of the Pakistani irrigation systems can be controlled from India, because some of them are now located in Indian territory. The Indus Waters Treaty signed in 1960 resolved most of these disputes over the sharing of water. It called both parties to co-operate in this regard. The treaty faced issues because India has since constructed dams which limit the water flow to the Pakistani side.

As with other disputed territories, each government issues maps depicting their claims in Kashmir as part of their territory, regardless of actual control. It is illegal in India to exclude all or part of Kashmir in a map. It is also illegal in Pakistan not to include the state of Jammu and Kashmir as disputed territory, as permitted by the U.N. Non-participants often use the Line of Control and the Line of Actual Control as the depicted boundaries, as is done in the CIA World Factbook, and the region is often marked out in hashmarks, although the Indian government strictly opposes such practices. When Microsoft released a map in Windows 95 and MapPoint 2002, a controversy was raised because it did not show all of Kashmir as part of India as per Indian claim. However, all the neutral and Pakistani companies claim to follow UN's map and over 90% of all maps containing the territory of Kashmir show it as disputed territory.

UN: The boundaries and names shown and the designations used on the map do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the United Nations.
Dotted line represents approximately the Line of Control of Jammu and Kashmir agreed upon by the Republic of India and the Government of Pakistan since 1972. Both the parties have not yet agreed upon the final status of the region and nothing significant has been implemented since the peace process began in 2004. "See UN map of Jammu and Kashmir, accepted by most countries of the world"

Islamabad: The Government of Pakistan maintains un-provisionally and unconditionally stating that the informal "Accession of Jammu and Kashmir" to Pakistan or even to the Republic of India remains to be decided by UN plebiscite. It accepts UN's map of the territory. The designations and the presentation of the Kashmir's regional map based on UNO practice, do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Commonwealth Secretariat or the publishers concerning the legal status of any country, territory or area, or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. There is no intention to define the status Jammu and/or Kashmir, which has not yet been agreed upon by the parties. It further says that boundaries must be based on historical, geographical and not political oreintated. 

New Delhi: The Government of India states that "the external artificial boundaries of the Republic of India, especially concerning the international borders under its jurisdiction created by a foreign body are neither correct nor authenticated".

Beijing: The Communist government of the People's Republic Of China maintains it's control over what is known as the Chinese Kashmir, it is claimed and disputed by the Republic of India; however recognized by Pakistan as part of China as per its claimed, stating that the Line of Actual Control is not demarcated or boundary undefined, the frontier is yet to be finalised, between the states involved.



</doc>
<doc id="17634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17634" title="Rural">
Rural

Rural areas are areas which are not towns or cities. They are often farming or agricultural areas. These areas are sometimes called "the country" or "countryside". People who live "in the country" often live in small villages, but they might also live somewhere where there are no other houses nearby.

Rural is the opposite of urban, which means places such as cities where buildings and places where people work and live are all close together.

Many people who live in cities like to go to the country to relax. They go there for recreation, often for their holidays.

In the U.S. the term "rural areas" technically describes a place that has less than 500 inhabitants per square mile.


</doc>
<doc id="17636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17636" title="Stephen Crane">
Stephen Crane

Stephen Crane (November 1, 1871 - June 5, 1900) was an American author in the late 19th century. He was born in Newark, New Jersey. For a while, he was a reporter in the slums of New York City. Then, he wrote The Red Badge of Courage, which is about the American Civil War, and other stories such as The Open Boat and .


</doc>
<doc id="17637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17637" title="Lawrence's Goldfinch">
Lawrence's Goldfinch

The Lawrence's Goldfinch, "Carduelis lawrencei", is a small songbird of North America. Bigger than the Lesser Goldfinch, and smaller than the American Goldfinch, with less yellow markings than either.

It lives from central California and its southern coast in the United States, to Baja California in Mexico. Females have less yellow and do not have the black cap and chin of the males.

This bird is named after the American "ornithologist" (bird expert), George Newbold Lawrence.


</doc>
<doc id="17639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17639" title="George Newbold Lawrence">
George Newbold Lawrence

George Newbold Lawrence (October 20, 1806 - January 17, 1895) was an American businessperson and amateur ornithologist (bird expert).

Lawrence counted birds for Spencer Fullerton Baird and John Cassin, and the three men wrote "Birds of North America" in 1858.

Lawrence left his 8,000 bird skins to the American Museum of Natural History. The Lawrence's Goldfinch "Carduelis lawrencei" was named for him by Cassin.


</doc>
<doc id="17641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17641" title="Santa Claus">
Santa Claus

Commonly associated with Christmas, Santa Claus is mostly shown as a fat and happy man wearing a red suit with white trim. According to the American version of the legend, Santa, as he is often known, lives in the North Pole with his wife, Mrs. Claus, some elves who build his toys, and reindeer who pull his sled. Father Christmas, the Nordic version of the myth, is said to reside in Lapland, Finland. He is also associated with bringing gifts to small children on Christmas by sliding down fireplace chimneys and reindeer pulling his sled. 

The tradition originally comes from Finland (Nordic countries) and then spread to the world. Santa Claus is most likely created from the Dutch Sinterklaas, who was also known as St. Nick. There are many popular culture items about Santa. Santa Claus is known as Saint Nicholas, Saint Nick, Father Christmas, Santa, Santy, Kris Kringle and many other names.

Santa Claus lives in a small hill called Korvatunturi in Lapland, Finland in the Nordic myth. There is a theme park in Rovaniemi, which is near Korvatunturi, called Santa Claus Village. 

The saint who inspired the legend of Sinterklaas, (and thus Santa Claus) is Saint Nicholas, who lived in the 4th Century AD and had a reputation for secret gift-giving, such as putting coins in the shoes of those who left them out for him.


</doc>
<doc id="17642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17642" title="Cinnamon">
Cinnamon

Cinnamon ("Cinnamomum verum", synonym "C. zeylanicum") is a kind of tree. Sometimes it is used to make a kind of exotic spice. It is very aromatic, sweet and spicy. People usually put cinnamon in sweet baked goods (such as cinnamon rolls), hot wine or liquors. The spice is made from the bark of the tree.

The Sinhalese name is "kurundu" and is pronounced /kurundu/
Cinnamon is grown as an export crop in Sri Lanka


</doc>
<doc id="17643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17643" title="1186">
1186





</doc>
<doc id="17644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17644" title="1187">
1187





</doc>
<doc id="17645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17645" title="1188">
1188


</doc>
<doc id="17649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17649" title="Egg">
Egg

Egg can mean different things:


</doc>
<doc id="17651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17651" title="Science fiction">
Science fiction

Science fiction (often shortened to sci-fi or SF) is a kind of story. Science fiction stories can be novels, movies, TV shows, comic books and other literature.

SF is often about the future. It can be about imaginary new science and inventions such as spaceships, time machines, and robots. Science fiction stories are often in a world that is very different from the real world. They can have science and tools that does not exist in reality. Science fiction stories often take place on other worlds. There are often alien creatures.

Science fiction is different from fantasy. Fantasy stories often have magic and other things that do not exist and are not science. Isaac Asimov was a famous science fiction writer. He once said that science fiction is possible, but fantasy is not.

Writers often use SF to explain everyday questions or problems by putting them in the future. Usually the world becomes very different to help people notice important ideas.

Science fiction changes over time. Some authors wrote SF books before this type of writing had a name. These writers and books were not called science fiction when they were published. But, they are often called science fiction today.


Two broad genres of science fiction are Hard SF and Soft SF. Although not everyone agrees on the exact definitions of these two types, the way they use science or the type of science used in the stories is different.

Hard science fiction, or "hard SF", is special because it uses true facts and theories from sciences. These sciences are very important in Hard SF: physics, astrophysics, and chemistry. Also, Hard SF can show worlds that more advanced technology may make possible. Many correct predictions of the future come from the hard science fiction subgenre. However, there have been many incorrect ideas about the future, too. Some hard SF writers have also worked as professional scientists. A few of these scientist/writers are Gregory Benford and Geoffrey A. Landis, while mathematician authors include Rudy Rucker and Vernor Vinge. Other noteworthy hard SF authors include Arthur C. Clarke, Hal Clement, Isaac Asimov, Greg Bear, Larry Niven, Robert J. Sawyer, Stephen Baxter, Alastair Reynolds, Charles Sheffield, and Greg Egan.

Soft science fiction stories take ideas from social sciences such as psychology, economics, political science, sociology, and anthropology. Some important writers in this category include Ursula K. Le Guin and Philip K. Dick. Soft SF can be mostly about character and emotion. Ray Bradbury won a prize called the SFWA Grand Master and writes in this style. The Soviet Union produced social science fiction too. Some examples are Strugatsky brothers, Kir Bulychov and Ivan Yefremov.

Some Social SF and Soft SF can be types of speculative fiction, for example utopian or dystopian stories. George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty-Four", Aldous Huxley's "Brave New World" and Margaret Atwood's "The Handmaid's Tale", are examples. Some people think that satirical novels in fantastic settings (places) such as "Gulliver's Travels" by Jonathan Swift are speculative fiction.

Within Hard or Soft SF, there are different types, or subgenres, of science fiction. Each subgenre is a group of stories that uses similar ideas or styles of writing. Publishing companies and critics put works of SF into different subgenres to help describe the work to help readers choose which books to read ro films to watch. Assigning genres is not simple. Some stories can be in two or more genres at the same time. Other stories may not fit any genre.

In Alternate (or alternative) history stories, writers imagine how the past might have been different. These stories may use time travel to change the past. Some set a story in a universe with a different history from our own. These are some important alternate history books:

The Sidewise Award is for the best works in this subgenre. The name Sidewise is taken from Murray Leinster's 1934 story "Sidewise in Time." Harry Turtledove is one of the most famous writers in the subgenre. He is often called the "master of alternate history".

Apocalyptic fiction is about the end of civilization. There are several types: through war ("On The Beach"), pandemic ("The Last Man"), astronomic impact ("When Worlds Collide"), ecological disaster ("The Wind From Nowhere"), or mankind's self-destruction ("Oryx and Crake"), or some other general disaster. Apocalyptic SF may also be about world or civilization after a disaster.

Cyberpunk began in the early 1980s. Bruce Bethke used this word as the title for a short story in 1980 by putting together two words: "cybernetics" and "punk". Soon, people used this word to describe William Gibson's book, "Neuromancer". Cyberpunk authors can put their stories in different settings. Stories usually take place in the near-future and the settings are often dystopian (characterized by misery). These are often societies with very advanced technology. A few huge corporations usually control the society. Another early cyberpunk novel that has become a classic is "Snow Crash" by Neal Stephenson.

Military science fiction stories happen during wars. These wars can be between different countries, different planets, or between different species. The stories are told by characters who are soldiers. They include detail about military technology, rules, and history. Some Military SF may be similar to real historical conflicts. Heinlein's "Starship Troopers" is an early example. Another is the Dorsai novels of Gordon Dickson. Joe Haldeman's "The Forever War" is a response to the World War II–style stories of earlier military SF authors. Haldeman was a soldier in the Vietnam War. Important military SF authors include John Ringo, David Drake, David Weber, and S. M. Stirling. Baen Books is known for cultivating military science fiction authors.

Superhuman stories are about humans who get special abilities that are not normal. Maybe the new powers come from nature. Two examples of this type are Olaf Stapledon's novel "Odd John" and Theodore Sturgeon's "More Than Human". Sometimes scientists give people special powers on purpose. one example is A.E. van Vogt's novel "Slan". Frederick Pohl's novel "Man Plus" is another good example from this category. In that book, government scientists make a man into a powerful cyborg (part human, part machine).

These stories usually have two main points. One is the feeling of loneliness and separation that these superhuman people feel. The other is society's reaction to them.

Space opera is adventure science fiction in outer space or on distant planets. Action is more important than the science or characters. There is usually a strong hero and a very big conflict. The action often moves to many different places. Edward E. (Doc) Smith was an early Space opera writer. Flash Gordon and Star Wars are also popular examples.

Some people may think that Space Western is a kind of Space opera. It takes ideas from books and films about exploring the American Old West and moves them to space in the future. These stories are often on "frontier" colony worlds (colonies that have only recently been terraformed and/or settled) serving as stand-ins for the backdrop of lawlessness and economic expansion that were predominant in the American west. Some examples are "Firefly" and the movie "Serenity" by Joss Whedon. Anime programs like "Cowboy Bebop" and "Outlaw Star" are also Space Westerns. Han Solo from "Star Wars" is an important Space Western character.

The first important time travel novel was Mark Twain's "A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court". The most famous is H. G. Wells's 1895 novel "The Time Machine". Well's book uses a machine that allows an operator to travel to an exact time. Twain's time traveler is struck in the head. The term ""time machine"", was invented by Wells. Now it is the name for any vehicle that can take a rider to a one date. Ray Bradbury's 1952 short story called "A Sound of Thunder" is a more recent and very famous example of this genre. Time travel stories can be complicated. They have logical problems such as the grandfather paradox. Time travel is a popular subject in modern science fiction, in print, movies, and television.


Science fiction fandom is the "community of the literature of ideas... the culture in which new ideas emerge and grow before being released into society at large". Members of this community, "fans", are in contact with each other at conventions or clubs, through print or online fanzines, or on the Internet using web sites, mailing lists, and other resources.

SF fandom emerged from the letters column in "Amazing Stories" magazine. Soon fans began writing letters to each other, and then grouping their comments together in informal publications that became known as fanzines. Once they were in regular contact, fans wanted to meet each other, and they organized local clubs. In the 1930s, the first science fiction conventions gathered fans from a wider area. Conventions, clubs, and fanzines were the main fan activities, or "fanac", for decades, until the Internet improved communication among a much larger population of interested people.

There are two very important science fiction awards: the Hugo Award and the Nebula Award. The Hugo is presented by the World Science Fiction Society at Worldcon each year. The Nebula is presented by SFWA and voted on by the community of authors. One important award for science fiction films is the Saturn Award. The Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy, and Horror Films gives this award each year..

There are national awards, like Canada's Aurora Award and the UK Arthur C. Clarke Award, regional awards, like the Endeavour Award presented at Orycon for works from the Pacific Northwest, special interest or subgenre awards like the Chesley Award for art or the World Fantasy Award for fantasy. Magazines may organize reader polls, notably the Locus Award.

Conventions (in fandom, shortened as "cons"), are held in cities around the world, catering to a local, regional, national, or international membership. General-interest conventions cover all aspects of science fiction, while others focus on a particular interest like media fandom, filking, etc. Most are organized by volunteers in non-profit groups, though most media-oriented events are organized by commercial promoters. The convention's activities are called the "program", which may include panel discussions, readings, autograph sessions, costume masquerades, and other events. Activities that occur throughout the convention are not part of the program; these commonly include a dealer's room, art show, and hospitality lounge (or "con suites").

Conventions may host award ceremonies. Worldcons present the Hugo Awards each year. SF societies are a year-round base of activities for science fiction fans. They may be associated with an ongoing science fiction convention, or have regular club meetings, or both. Most groups meet in libraries, schools and universities, community centers, pubs or restaurants, or the homes of individual members. Long-established groups like the New England Science Fiction Association and the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society have clubhouses for meetings and storage of convention supplies and research materials.

The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA) was founded by Damon Knight in 1965 as a non-profit organization to serve the community of professional science fiction authors, 24 years after his essay "Unite or Fie!" had led to the organization of the National Fantasy Fan Federation. Fandom has helped support related groups as they started to form, including media fandom, the Society for Creative Anachronism, gaming, filking, and furry fandom.

The first science fiction fanzine, "The Comet", was published in 1930. Fanzine printing methods have changed over the decades, from the mimeograph and the ditto machine, to modern photocopying. The number of copies was usually not enough to use commercial printing. Modern fanzines are printed on computer printers or at local copy shops, or they may only be sent as email. The best known fanzine (or "'zine") today is "Ansible". David Langford is the editor and it has won several Hugo awards. Other fanzines that won awards recently include "File 770," "Mimosa," and "Plokta". Artists working for fanzines have risen to prominence in the field, including Brad W. Foster, Teddy Harvia, and Joe Mayhew; the Hugos include a category for Best Fan Artists. The earliest organized fandom online was the SF Lovers community, originally a mailing list in the late 1970s with a text archive file that was updated regularly. In the 1980s, Usenet groups greatly expanded the circle of fans online. In the 1990s, the development of the World-Wide Web made the online fan community much, much larger. Fans created thousands and then millions of web sites devoted to science fiction and related genres for all media. Most of these websites are small, ephemeral, or about very specific topics. Though sites like SF Site and Read and Find Out give readers a broad range of references and reviews about science fiction.

Fan fiction is non-commercial fiction created by people who love an SF story or world. Fans write stories that take place in the setting of an established book, film, or television series. Some people call it "fanfic". In some cases, the copyright owners of the books, films, or television series have instructed their lawyers to issue "cease and desist" letters to fans.



</doc>
<doc id="17654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17654" title="Blaise Pascal">
Blaise Pascal

Blaise Pascal (1623 - 1662) was a French mathematician whose mother died when he was 3 years old. His father's name was Étienne. He had two sisters, Jaqueline and Gilberte. Pascal was completely educated by his father. Pascal was considered a child prodigy. Though best known for his works in math, including the creation of Pascal's Triangle, which is named after him, and developments in the field of probability, Pascal was also a scientist. He wrote in support of the scientific method and also contributed to physics. Later he wrote two books about Christianity.

Pascal was born in Clermont, France and died in Paris, France at 39. He died from a malignant stomach ulcer.


</doc>
<doc id="17656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17656" title="Pascal's Triangle">
Pascal's Triangle

Pascal's Triangle is a mathematical triangle. People say French mathematician Blaise Pascal developed it. However, it has been used before him.

Pascal's triangle can be made as follows. On the first row, write only the number 1. Then, to get the numbers of following rows, add the number that can be seen above and to the left (if any) and the number above and to the right (if any) to find the new value. For example, the numbers 1 and 3 in the fourth row are added to make 4 in the fifth row. 

The triangle has many uses in probability. It can also be used in binomial expansions. For example

Notice the coefficients are the third row of Pascal's triangle: 1, 2, 1.
In general, when a binomial is raised to a positive integer power we have:

where the coefficients "a" in this expansion are precisely the numbers on row "n" + 1 of Pascal's triangle; in other words, 

Formally speaking, the way of making the Pascal's Triangle uses Pascal's rule, which states that

for non-negative integers "n" and "k" where "n" ≥ "k" and with the initial condition

Pascal's triangle generalizes readily into higher dimensions. The three-dimensional version is called Pascal's pyramid or "Pascal's tetrahedron". A higher-dimensional analogue is generically called a "Pascal's simplex". See also pyramid, tetrahedron, and simplex.

The first and last number in each row is always 1.
The second number in each row is the row number. In a binomial expansion, this second number is equal to the power. (This makes the 'first' row, 1, actually the zero row). 
The rows always read the same forward and backward. 
The sum of the numbers in each row is double the sum of the numbers in the row before. The sum of each row is 2.


</doc>
<doc id="17661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17661" title="Antidisestablishmentarianism">
Antidisestablishmentarianism

Antidisestablishmentarianism is one of the longest words in the English language. It is often used just because of its length, and not because of its meaning. Part of the reason for this is that antidisestablishmentarianism describes something that people no longer talk about very much.

An official state church is called the "established" church, so a disestablishmentarian is a person who wants to "get rid of" the established church. This person's ideas are called disestablishmentarianism. 

And antidisestablishmentarianism describes groups of people who are against "getting rid" of the established church. It is very often used to describe those who do not want the Church of England to stop being established. In other words, they want the Church of England to continue being established. 


</doc>
<doc id="17662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17662" title="1193">
1193





</doc>
<doc id="17663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17663" title="Sarah McLachlan">
Sarah McLachlan

Sarah McLachlan (born January 28, 1968) is a Canadian singer and songwriter who is known for her beautiful, emotional music. She was raised in Halifax, Nova Scotia. She went to the Nova Scotia College of Art and Design, then moved to Vancouver, British Columbia.

Her recording company, Nettwerk, released her first album in 1988. After recording several albums, she organized the all-female music festival Lilith Fair in 1997, 1998, and 1999. Some of the money made from these concerts went to women's charities. McLachlan received the Elizabeth Cady Stanton Visionary Award in 1998 for helping women's music.

She married her drummer, Ashwin Sood, in 1997. They have a daughter, India, born in 2002.

McLachlan has been written about in magazines such as Rolling Stone, Time, and Entertainment Weekly. She has won Grammy and Juno awards for her music.

She funds a Vancouver program that helps poor children learn music. She has played at charity concerts, such as for victims of the December 26, 2004 tsunami and at the 2005 Live 8 concert in Philadelphia, USA.

Some of McLachlan's best-known songs include "The Path of Thorns", "Into the Fire", "Possession", "Building a Mystery", "Sweet Surrender", "Adia", "Angel", and "World on Fire".

Albums with only new songs:

Live EPs (shorter albums) were released in 1992 and 2004.



</doc>
<doc id="17665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17665" title="Mark Twain">
Mark Twain

Samuel Langhorne Clemens (November 30, 1835 – April 21, 1910), more widely known as Mark Twain, was a well known American writer born in Florida, Missouri. He worked mainly for newspapers and as a riverboat pilot before he became a writer.

Clemens was best known for his works in fiction, and especially for his use of humour. His first published story, in 1865, was "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County."

"Huckleberry Finn" has become very respected, considered by many to be Clemens' best work. This story of a white boy who helps a black man escape slavery in the southern United States is known for its humanity.

Clemens's style was usually informal and humorous. This made him different from many important 19th century writers whose books he disliked. For example, he greatly disliked Jane Austen's works, such as "Sense and Sensibility" and "Pride and Prejudice", and famously remarked, "She makes me detest (hate) all her people, without reserve."




</doc>
<doc id="17668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17668" title="Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban">
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the third book in the "Harry Potter" series by J. K. Rowling. The book was released on July 8, 1999. It which covers Harry Potter's third year at Hogwarts. A film based on the book was released on May 31, 2004.

After accidentally inflating his Aunt Marge, Harry leaves the Dursleys, and catches a ride on the street on a magical bus called The Knight Bus. Before he begins his way back to Hogwarts, he learns of Sirius Black, a mass murderer, believed to have killed thirteen people with a single curse. Black has escaped from the wizard prison, Azkaban. Mr. Weasley tells Mrs. Weasley of Siruis Blacks motive to kill Harry. When Harry overhears this he is told not to go looking for Black. Harry soon realizes why... This is the only book where Lord Voldemort does not make an appearance.


</doc>
<doc id="17669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17669" title="Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire">
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is the fourth book in the "Harry Potter" series by J. K. Rowling. It was published on 8 July 2000. It was made into a movie that came out in 2005.

In this book, Harry and three other young wizards do many challenges, such as fighting against a dragon, swimming and similar stuff.


</doc>
<doc id="17670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17670" title="Crohn's disease">
Crohn's disease

Crohn's disease, Crohn disease, or Leśniowski-Crohn disease is an illness that causes the intestines, or other parts of the digestive tract (the parts of the body food goes through), to become swollen, and sometimes develop ulcers (holes). People with Crohn's disease often have pain in the gut, diarrhea, vomiting, and weight loss. Crohn's can also cause skin rashes, arthritis, and swollen eyes.

Nobody knows exactly what causes Crohn's disease. In the disease, the person's body attacks itself. The immune system attacks healthy parts of the digestive tract. This causes inflammation, or swelling, in the digestive tract. Therefore, Crohn's disease is one of two inflammatory bowel diseases and one of many autoimmune diseases.

Like many other autoimmune diseases, Crohn's disease seems to be connected to the person's genes. People whose brothers or sisters have the disease are the most likely to get it. Men and women are both just as likely to get Crohn's disease.




</doc>
<doc id="17675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17675" title="Pet door">
Pet door

Pet doors, also known as cat doors, dog doors, doggie doors, or in the United Kingdom, cat flaps, are small doors for pets. They are usually built in regular doors, but can also be in windows or walls. They usually have the hinge on the top, with no latch, so the animal can push their way in and out. Newer models sometimes only let the pet go outside, but not inside. Others have a latch and something that can be put on the pet that makes the latch open when the pet gets close to the door. They are most commonly used for pet cats, but can also be used for dogs, miniature pigs, or other small pets.


</doc>
<doc id="17681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17681" title="Mount Rainier">
Mount Rainier

Mount Rainier is a mountain 54 miles (87 kilometres) southeast of Seattle, Washington, in the United States. It is the highest mountain in the Cascade Range, at 14,410 feet (4,392 metres). The top of the mountain is mostly covered by snow and glaciers. Rainier is an active volcano, but has not had an eruption for more than 100 years.

On March 2, 1899, U.S. President William McKinley made the mountain and area around it Mount Rainier National Park; the country's fifth national park.



</doc>
<doc id="17684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17684" title="Template:Geolinks-US-mountain">
Template:Geolinks-US-mountain



</doc>
<doc id="17686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686" title="Fort Knox">
Fort Knox

Fort Knox is an U.S. Army post, located in Kentucky. Named after Henry Knox, the fort is now the site of the U.S. Bullion Reservatory (where the United States keeps its gold). The fort's fortifications were built in 1862 during the American Civil War; however, the camp became abandoned until 1917. 

It is named for Henry Knox, a general in the American Revolutionary War.

The James Bond book and film "Goldfinger" is about somebody trying to blow up Fort Knox


</doc>
<doc id="17690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17690" title="Maxwell's equations">
Maxwell's equations

In 1868, James Clerk Maxwell found four equations to describe all the things relating to electromagnetism:

where the following table provides the meaning of each symbol and the SI unit of measure:

and

where formula_4 is the "free" electric charge density (in units of C/m), not counting the dipole charges bound in a material, and formula_5 is the electric displacement field (in units of C/m). This equation is like Coulomb's law for non-moving charges in vacuum.

The next integral form (by the divergence theorem), also known as Gauss' law, says the same thing:

formula_7 is the area of a differential square on the closed surface A. The surface normal pointing out is the direction, and formula_8 is the free charge that is inside the surface.

In a "linear material", formula_5 is directly related to the electric field formula_10 with a constant called the permittivity, formula_11 (This constant is different for different materials):

You can pretend a material is linear, if the electric field is not very strong. 

The permittivity of free space is called formula_13, and is used in this equation:

Here formula_10 is the electric field again (in units of V/m), formula_16 is the total charge density (including the bound charges), and formula_13 (approximately 8.854 pF/m) is the permittivity of free space. One can also write formula_11 as formula_19. Here, formula_20 is the permittivity of the material when compared to the permittivity of free space. This is called the relative permittivity or "dielectric constant".

See also Poisson's equation.

formula_22 is the magnetic flux density (in units of teslas, T), also called the magnetic induction.

This next integral form says the same thing: 

formula_7 is the area of a differential square on the surface formula_25. The surface normal pointing out is the direction.

This equation only works if the integral is done over a closed surface.
This equation says, that in every volume the sum of the magnetic field lines that go in equals the sum of the magnetical field lines that go out. This means that the magnetic field lines must be closed loops. Another way of saying this is that the field lines cannot start from somewhere. 
This is the mathematical way of saying: "There are no magnetic monopoles".

This next integral form says the same thing: 

Here formula_28

This is what the symbols mean:

Φ is the magnetic flux that goes through the area A that the second equation describes,

E is the electric field that the magnetic flux causes,

s is a closed path in which current is induced, for example a wire,

v is the instantaneous velocity of the line element (for moving circuits).

The electromotive force is equal to the value of this integral. Sometimes this symbol is used for the electromotive force: formula_29, do not confuse it with the symbol for permittivity that was used before.

This law is like Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction.

Some textbooks show the right hand sign of the integral form with an "N" (N is the number of coils of wire that are around the edge of "A") in front of the flux derivative. The "N" can be taken care of in calculating "A" (multiple wire coils means multiple surfaces for the flux to go through), and it is an engineering detail so it's left out here.

The negative sign is needed for conservation of energy. It is so important that it even has its own name, Lenz's law.

This equation shows how the electric and magnetic fields have to do with each other. For example, this equation explains how electric motors and electric generators work. In a motor or generator, the field circuit has a fixed electric field that causes a magnetic field. This is called fixed excitation. The varying voltage is measured across the armature circuit.
Maxwell's equations are used in a right-handed coordinate system. To use them in a left-handed system, without having to change the equations, the polarity of magnetic fields has to made opposite (this is not wrong, but it is confusing because it is not usually done like this).

H is the magnetic field strength (in units of A/m), which you can get by multiplying the magnetic flux B by a constant called the permeability, μ (B = μH), and J is the current density, defined by: 

J = ∫ρvdV 

v is a vector field called the drift velocity. It describes the speeds of the charge carriers that have a density described by the scalar function ρ.

In free space, the permeability μ is the permeability of free space, μ, which is "exactly" 4π×10 W/A·m, by definition. Also, the permittivity is the permittivity of free space ε. So, in free space, the equation is:

The next integral form says the same thing:

"s" is the edge of the open surface "A" (any surface with the curve "s" as its edge is okay here), and "I" is the current encircled by the curve "s" (the current through any surface is defined by the equation: "I" = ∫"J·dA)."

If the electric flux density does not change very fast, the second term on the right hand side (the displacement flux) is very small and can be left out, and then the equation is the same as Ampere's law.

There are only two covariant Maxwell Equations, because the covariant field vector includes the electrical and the magnetical field.

"Mathematical note: In this section the abstract index notation will be used."

In special relativity, Maxwell's equations for the vacuum are written in terms of four-vectors and tensors in the "manifestly covariant" form. This has been done to show more clearly the fact that Maxwell's equations (in vacuum) take the same form in any inertial coordinate system. This is the "manifestly covariant" form:

and

The second equation is the same as:

Here formula_36 is the 4-current, formula_37 is the field strength tensor (written as a 4 × 4 matrix), formula_38 is the Levi-Civita symbol, and formula_39 is the 4-gradient (so that formula_40 is the d'Alembertian operator). (The formula_41 in the first equation is implicitly summed over, according to Einstein notation.) The first tensor equation says the same thing as the two inhomogeneous Maxwell's equations: Gauss' law and Ampere's law with Maxwell's correction. The second equation say the same thing as the other two equations, the homogeneous equations: Faraday's law of induction and the absence of magnetic monopoles.

formula_36 can also be described more explicitly by this equation: formula_43 (as a contravariant vector), where you get formula_36 from the charge density ρ and the current density formula_45. The 4-current is a solution to the continuity equation:

formula_46

In terms of the 4-potential (as a contravariant vector) formula_47, where φ is the electric potential and formula_48 is the magnetic vector potential in the Lorentz gauge formula_49, "F" can be written as:

which leads to the 4 × 4 matrix rank-2 tensor:

The fact that both electric and magnetic fields are combined into a single tensor shows the fact that, according to relativity, both of these are different parts of the same thing—by changing frames of reference, what looks like an electric field in one frame can look like a magnetic field in another frame, and the other way around.

Using the tensor form of Maxwell's equations, the first equation implies 

formula_52
(See Electromagnetic four-potential for the relationship between the d'Alembertian of the four-potential and the four-current, expressed in terms of the older vector operator notation).

Different authors sometimes use different sign conventions for these tensors and 4-vectors (but this does not change what they mean).

formula_37 and formula_54 are "not" the same: they are related by the Minkowski metric tensor formula_55: formula_56. This changes the sign of some of "F"'s components; more complex metric dualities can be seen in general relativity.


</doc>
<doc id="17691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17691" title="Henry Knox">
Henry Knox

Henry Knox (1750-1806) was a military leader for the Americans during the American Revolutionary War. Originally from Boston, Massachusetts, he was appointed Chief Artillery Officer of the Continental Army. He is best known for transporting cannons and other artillery from Fort Ticonderoga to Boston through icy conditions using oxen. Later, George Washington named him the first Secretary of War. 

Fort Knox in Kentucky & Maine are named after him.


</doc>
<doc id="17692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17692" title="American Revolutionary War">
American Revolutionary War

The American Revolutionary War was a war fought between Great Britain and the original 13 British colonies in America. The war took place from 1775 to 1783. The American Army (Army of the colonies), led by George Washington, and other generals, defeated the armies of the British Empire. The colonies became independent, which meant that the British Empire was no longer in charge of them. 

The war started after years of problems between people and the British Empire and the colonists of North America. There were 13 colonies, and the colonists (people living in the colonies) did not like many of the actions of the British government and taxes. The colonists fought to take land from the natives but they did not own it. They had to pay rent to the butt King in London. Many colonists did not think this was fair. In 1765, the British Parliament passed a Law called the Stamp Act. This law said that colonists had to buy stamps for all legal papers, newspapers, and even playing cards. The colonies did not follow this law. Large groups of people attacked people who were even thought to have the stamps. The law was changed in 1766. By this time, many colonists believed the revolution against King George III was already fought and won. The British sent more soldiers to keep control of the colonies. In 1774, the British passed the Intolerable Acts. Other battles were also fought before the war started. The Boston Tea Party and Boston Massacre caused people to become more mad about the situation.

Not all colonists wanted to leave the British Empire. The "Loyalists", or Tories, stayed loyal to Great Britain. They were not going to change their views. The "Patriots", or Whigs, who were said to have the opposite view of the Loyalists, wanted independence. Before the Revolutionary War, most people in America were Loyalists; but after it, most people were Patriots.

Many colonists wrote letters showing how they felt. Thomas Paine wrote "Common Sense", a famous pamphlet about independence from Britain. Other colonial leaders, such as Samuel Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson wanted independence.

The first battles of the American Revolutionary War were Lexington and Concord. One of the first major battles was the battle of Bunker Hill in 1775. After that, the British controlled Boston. Around that time, the Second Continental Congress sent an Olive Branch Petition to King George III (which he rejected) and named George Washington head of the army. Early in 1776, Washington drove the British out of Boston. Then the Continental Army and British troops under William Howe fought several battles in and around New York City, such as Long Island, Kip's Bay, Fort Washington, and White Plains. During the New York battles, the British first started using Hessian troops, who were from Germany. Though the colonists lost New York (the British would hold it for the rest of the War), Washington was able to hold onto most of his army. Over Christmas, 1776-77, Washington crossed the Delaware River and defeated the Hessians at Trenton and the British at Princeton. 

In 1777, the British attacked the country of Philadelphia, then the American capital. Two battles were fought over Philadelphia: Brandywine and Germantown. Again, the Americans lost a major city, but Washington was able to keep most of his army. Around this time, the Frenchman Lafayette joined the American Army. In 1778, the British left Philadelphia. Between 1778 and 1781, most battles between Washington and the British were inconclusive (they did not have any major effect militarily). 

One of the most important battles was the battle of Saratoga in 1777. American soldiers under Horatio Gates forced a British under John Burgoyne. This led to France and Spain joining the war on the side of Americans. From 1778 to 1780, there was fighting in the West. In the South, General Nathanael Greene led a campaign in the Carolinas. He caused many people in the South to be Patriots instead of Loyalists, and won several battles against the British. The American sailor John Paul Jones also won several naval battles over the British. The Americans tried to capture Canada several times, but failed each time. 

In 1781, Washington and French general Jean Rochambeau led an offensive against British troops in Yorktown, Virginia. This was called the Battle of Yorktown. The British surrendered (gave up the fight).

Great Britain accepted the independence of the colonies. It also gave all the land it said it owned which was west of the Appalachians as far as the Mississippi River to the new country.


</doc>
<doc id="17694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17694" title="1775">
1775



</doc>
<doc id="17695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17695" title="Continental Army">
Continental Army

The Continental Army was the fighting force of the thirteen British colonies in the American Revolutionary War. It was created in 1775 by the First Continental Congress. Most of the army was in 1783 after the conclusion of the war. The army was officially closed by a resolution of Congress in 1784. The United States Army replaced it.

George Washington was elected the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army when it was formed and served until its replacement.


</doc>
<doc id="17700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17700" title="Cream cheese">
Cream cheese

Cream cheese is a soft, mild-tasting, white cheese. Sometimes it is given extra flavor by adding additional seasonings such as puréed garlic, chopped dill, or chopped olives; as well, some cream cheese has small pieces of fruit or other sweet food blended into it. Cream cheese is different from other cheese in that it is not allowed time to mature.

Cream cheese is often spread on toasted bagels. Waffles with cream cheese and salsa is eaten in some areas of the United States.

Cream cheese is used to make cheesecake, a sweet, rich cake that is served for dessert.


</doc>
<doc id="17703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17703" title="Shrewsbury">
Shrewsbury

Shrewsbury is a town in Shropshire, a county of England. It is the county town of Shropshire.

The town is very old and dates back to around 700 AD. There is a castle and the town centre is almost completely surrounded by the River Severn.

The population of Shrewsbury is 75,000. It is the second largest town in Shropshire, after Telford.


</doc>
<doc id="17704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17704" title="Telford">
Telford

Telford is a town in Shropshire, a county of England.

It is a new town and building began in the 1960s. There is a large shopping centre in the middle, as well as an ice rink and a large park.

The population of Telford is 150,000. It is the largest town in Shropshire, but is not the county town, which is Shrewsbury.


</doc>
<doc id="17705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17705" title="Ludlow">
Ludlow

Ludlow is a town in Shropshire, a county of England. The town is very old and dates back to around 800 AD. There is a large castle and many other historic buildings. The population of Ludlow is 20,000. It is the capital of the South Shropshire area.


</doc>
<doc id="17706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17706" title="South Shropshire">
South Shropshire

South Shropshire is a area of Shropshire in England.

It is very hilly and has few people living there. The only large town is Ludlow.

The area has many castles and other ancient features, such as stone circles.


</doc>
<doc id="17714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17714" title="Battle of Yorktown (1781)">
Battle of Yorktown (1781)

The Battle of Yorktown was the last important battle of the American Revolution. Fought in 1781, it is considered the last major battle of the Revolution. The Continental Army, led by George Washington, won against the British, led by General Lord Charles Cornwallis. Cornwallis was forced to surrender after being surrounded by Washington's army. As the British soldiers laid down their muskets, they were playing "The World Turned Upside Down". 

The Americans were assisted by the French, led by the Marquis de Lafayette and the Comte de Rochambeau. The battle took place in Yorktown, Virginia, near the York River. After being cut-off by the French fleet, Cornwallis surrendered to the Americans and the Continental Army.

The battle is thought of as the last battle of the Revolution and led to the Treaty of Paris in 1783.

In 2007, a group of famous musical artists joined together to honour the lives lost at the Battle of Yorktown. Mothership Johnsen, Dr. M. Steinkirchner, J. Chernus and Lord Admiral Rivers joined together in association with Rüshing Rivers Production to form the Indubididdy Continentals. 


</doc>
<doc id="17715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17715" title="Battle of Saratoga">
Battle of Saratoga

The Battle of Saratoga was an important battle in the American Revolution. Fought in late 1777, some historians think of it as a series of short, small battles. The battles were fought in Saratoga County in New York. The Americans were led by Horatio Gates, and the British were led by John Burgoyne. At the end of the battles, Burgoyne surrendered and the Americans captured nearly 6,000 redcoats. The battle is noted as the turning point of the revolution. After the battle, France decided to aid the Continental Army and recognize the United States. Saratoga was breakthrough for the Continental army, because France finally recognized them.

Burgoyne was trying to cut off New England from the other colonies by capturing the Hudson valley. At first, his army was successful. Britain won the first battle on September 19, 1777. However, many British troops died. Burgoyne tried to attack the Americans again on October 7, but the Americans captured a portion of the British defenses. So, Burgoyne had to retreat. His army was then surrounded by the much larger American force at Saratoga, forcing him to surrender on October 17.


</doc>
<doc id="17716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17716" title="1189">
1189




</doc>
<doc id="17717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17717" title="Horatio Gates">
Horatio Gates

Horation Gates (1726 - 1806) was an American general in the American Revolutionary War. Gates fought for the Continental Army and is credited with the decisive American victory at the Battle of Saratoga in 1777.

However, Gates was also lost to British General Charles Cornwallis at the Battle of Camden in 1780.


</doc>
<doc id="17718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17718" title="1276">
1276




</doc>
<doc id="17719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17719" title="1274">
1274

William Wallace


</doc>
<doc id="17720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17720" title="1198">
1198




</doc>
<doc id="17721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17721" title="1433">
1433





</doc>
<doc id="17722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17722" title="1435">
1435



</doc>
<doc id="17723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17723" title="Heinrich-Heine-University">
Heinrich-Heine-University

The Heinrich-Heine-University is the university of Düsseldorf, Germany, named after the most famous son of Düsseldorf, the poet Heinrich Heine.

In the era of Napoleon Bonaparte there was the first university in Düsseldorf, which ended after Napoleon surrendered.
So in the further 19th century there was only a Medical Academy and the famous Arts School of Düsseldorf and a Teacher Academy (Special University only for studying to became a teacher) until the 1970s, but no regular university, in Düsseldorf. In the 1960s the state government of North Rhine-Westphalia decided to have a regular university in the state's capital. The university started about 1970.
It got its name first in the 1980's, because the medicine faculty wanted to have a physician's name, because of the tradition as Medical Academy.

Actually the Heinrich-Heine-University is a university with about 20,000 students, which is middle-class in Germany.
It has a lot of subjects in sciences, arts, economics, and so on. The deep points are on biological-medicinical research in sciences and some deep points in arts, economics, political sciences, and philosophy.

Like most German universities it has a bright spectra of subjects:



</doc>
<doc id="17724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17724" title="1239">
1239

1239 is a year in the 13th century



</doc>
<doc id="17726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17726" title="Siberian tiger">
Siberian tiger

The Siberian Tiger ("Panthera tigris altaica"), also known as the Amur Tiger, Manchurian, or North China Tiger, is a subspecies of the tiger, of the "Felidae" family. It is also the largest and most powerful member of the "Felidae" family. It is thought that the tigers originally come from Siberia. 

The male Siberian tigers can weigh as much as 840 pounds, averaging 660 pounds. Females weigh 450 pounds, though some weigh 500 pounds and two have been recorded to be 520 pounds. The Siberian Tiger is usually only 2-4 inches taller at the shoulder than the Bengal tiger. Old males reach a head and the body length of 13 feet long though the usual is 9 - 12 feet. 
The Siberian Tiger is found in a very small part of eastern Russia, with a few in the nearby northern parts of Korea and China. It is very endangered and almost all over the world in zoos they are protected. There are only 500 left.
Before Amur Tigers were protected strictly in Soviet Union but when it broke there was less protection and the number came down.nly 400-500 left.
Amur tigers usually eat elk (Moose) , deer and cattle. But if they have little food they would have to eat brown bears and leopards. It would also eat also eats domestic dog if it is from its habitat.

The Siberian tiger can be recognised by the fur around the neck, which makes it warm. This is an adaption against the cold. Close to the winter the Siberian tigers hair grows longer so they can face the wintry weather.


</doc>
<doc id="17728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17728" title="1455">
1455





</doc>
<doc id="17730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17730" title="Cassette">
Cassette

A cassette is a small box which is made for putting inside a bigger machine. The cassette holds something that the bigger machine uses. For example, an audio cassette holds tape.

A cassette is a kind of cartridge. The words have similar meanings.

There are different kinds of cassettes, but the audio cassette (for music and sounds) is the most common.

Some of kinds of cassettes are:
Cassette has a different meaning in genetics.


</doc>
<doc id="17733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17733" title="Audio cassette">
Audio cassette

An audio cassette is a kind of cassette which can store music and sounds. It is used with a "cassette player" or "cassette recorder". Cassettes store the sound on a magnetic tape that is wound around the two reels in the cassette.

The standard audio cassette was invented in 1962 by the Philips company. They named it the "Compact Cassette". The first cassettes and cassette recorders were not very good. The quality got better, and during the 1970s the cassette became a popular way to listen to music. During the 1980s, they were even more popular. The Sony Walkman helped this.

Today, cassettes are less popular in the United States, Europe and Japan. In these places, compact discs have become more popular. Cassettes are still the main way to listen to music in many other countries.


</doc>
<doc id="17744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17744" title="1694">
1694





</doc>
<doc id="17745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17745" title="1290">
1290





</doc>
<doc id="17746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17746" title="Fight Club">
Fight Club

Fight Club is a 1996 book written by Chuck Palahniuk. It was later made into a movie that came out in 1999, starring Edward Norton, Brad Pitt, and Helena Bonham Carter. The film was directed by David Fincher.

The story focuses on an unnamed character's path during a dark form of personal enlightenment (or eternal happinness) which is achieved primarily through fighting. The story is rather dark and, in both the book and the movie, contains strong depictions of violence. There are a large amount of metaphors which are revealed in its complex and twisted storyline. Some would think that the morals and life guidelines taught in the story would be an extreme form of Buddhism, such as the idea of detachment from material possessions (things).


</doc>
<doc id="17747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17747" title="Top of the Pops">
Top of the Pops

Top of the Pops was a British music show, which featured popular artists performing their songs. It first started in 1964 and it ended in 2006 because not enough people were watching it anymore. It was hosted by Steve Wright.


</doc>
<doc id="17751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17751" title="Trinidad and Tobago">
Trinidad and Tobago

The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is a nation in the south Caribbean Sea. It is 11 km (7 miles) away from Venezuela. The country has two bigger islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and many smaller islands. The capital is Port-of-Spain. The country has 1,262,366 people in it.

Trinidad and Tobago received independence from the United Kingdom on August 31, 1962. Before that, it was ruled by the U.K. Right now, the head of state (person who is in charge of the country) is President George Maxwell Richards. The head of government (person who is in charge of the government) is Prime Minister Patrick Manning.

Trinidad and Tobago is very diverse. It has people of many different races and religions. There are people who are children of Africans, Europeans, Arabs, Indians, and Chinese who moved to the islands a long time ago. The biggest religions in the country are Christianity and Hinduism. There are also Islam and African religions in the country. By law, gays cannot enter into the country and being a homosexual can be a reason to go to jail.

The country has some natural gas beneath the ground and underwater in the ocean. Natural gas is a liquid that makes machines work and heats houses. Also, many people called tourists visit the islands. They want to take pictures and learn about the islands.

The people in the country are famous for their music. They also play football.

The population of Trinidad and Tobago is 1.17 million as of (2002). The ethnic groups of the population is: 



</doc>
<doc id="17752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17752" title="Category:Astronauts">
Category:Astronauts

See: astronaut


</doc>
<doc id="17756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17756" title="Mount St. Helens">
Mount St. Helens

Mount St. Helens is a volcano in the U.S. state of Washington. It is 96 miles (154 km) south of Seattle and 53 miles (85 km) northeast of Portland, Oregon. The volcano is in Cascade Range of mountains. It is part of the Cascade Volcanic Arc in the Pacific Ring of Fire that includes over 160 active volcanoes. Mount St. Helens was first called "Louwala-Clough", which means "smoking" or "fire mountain" in the language of the Native American Klickitat people.

This volcano is well known for its explosions and flows of lava. Its most famous volcanic eruption was on May 18, 1980. In 1982, U.S. President Ronald Reagan and the United States Congress made the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument, a 110,000 acre (445 km²) area around the volcano that is also a part of the Gifford Pinchot National Forest.

The 1980 eruption was the deadliest and most economically destructive volcanic event in the history of the United States. Fifty-seven people were killed; 250 homes, 47 bridges, 15 miles of railways, and 185 miles of highway were destroyed. A massive debris avalanche was triggered by an earthquake measuring 5.1 on the Richter scale. This caused the eruption, which reduced the height of the mountain's summit from to and replacing it with a wide horseshoe-shaped crater. The earthquake was caused by a sudden surge of magma from the Earth's mantle. The debris avalanche was up to 0.7 cubic miles (3.1 cubic kilometers) in volume.

Before the eruption in 1980, Mount St. Helens was the fifth-highest peak in Washington State. The peak rose more than 5,000 feet (1,525 m) above its base, where it rises from the ridges that are around it. It stood out from the surrounding hills because of the symmetrical cone shape and the snow that covered the top. Because of its cone-shape, it was called the "Mount Fuji of America", after the famous Mount Fuji which is a symbol of Japan.

In the months before the large eruption that took place on May 18, 1980, there were many signs of volcanic activity. On March 20, 1980, Mount St. Helens was the center of a magnitude 4.2 earthquake. Steam venting from the volcano started on March 27. By the end of April, the north side of the volcano started to grow larger. 

On May 18, a second earthquake of magnitude 5.1 made a huge part of the north face of the volcano collapse. It was the largest known debris avalanche in recorded history. At 08:32 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time, the magma inside of St. Helens exploded. On the Volcanic Explosivity Index scale, the eruption was rated a five, which is the same rating of the famous Vesuvius eruption in 79 AD. 

For more than nine hours, ash erupted from the volcano, rising into the air for 12 to 16 miles (20 to 27 km) above sea level in the air. This cloud rising from a volcano is called a "plume". The pyroclastic flow of heated rocks and gas that poured out of the Volcano spread over an area of over 230 square miles (600 km²), destroying plants and buildings. The ash spread east at about 60 miles per hour (95 km/h), with some ash reaching Idaho by about 12:00 pm, almost 3.5 hours after the eruption. By about 5:30 pm the plume of ash became smaller. Through the night and for several days after, there were smaller eruptions. 

As well as the effect of the fast-moving hot gasses and stones from the explosion, the collapse of the northern side of Mount St. Helens caused "lahars", or volcanic mudflows. These were mixtures of volcanic ash with melted ice and snow. The lahars went many miles down the Toutle and Cowlitz rivers, destroying bridges and killing many trees. A total of 3.9 million cubic yards (3.0 million m³) of material was carried 17 miles (27 km) south into the Columbia River by the lahars.

The St. Helens May 18 eruption released 24 megatons of thermal energy. It released more than 0.67 cubic miles (2.8 cubic km) of ash and other material. The collapse of the north side of the volcano shortened St. Helens' height by about 1,300 feet (400 m) and left a crater one to two miles (1.6 to 3.2 km) wide and half of a mile (800 m) deep. The eruption 
killed 57 people, nearly 7,000 game animals (deer, elk, and bear), and about 12 million fish from a fish farm. It destroyed or damaged over 200 homes, 185 miles (300 km) of highway and of railways.

Between 1980 and 1986, more volcanic activity continued at Mount Saint Helens, with a new lava dome made in the crater. Several small explosions and eruptions took place, making more lava domes. From December 7, 1989 to January 6, 1990, and from November 5, 1990 to February 14, 1991, the volcano erupted with sometimes huge clouds of ash.

The ash reached a number of states, as far east as Montana and as south as Colorado.

Magma bubbles came to the top of the volcano on about October 11, 2004, and a new lava dome was made on the first dome's south side. This new dome grew throughout 2005 and into 2006. Several new features were seen, such as the "whaleback," which is solid magma being pushed to the top of the volcano by magma under it. These features do not last long and break down soon after they are formed. On July 2, 2005, the tip of the whaleback broke off, and a rockfall sent ash several hundred meters into the air. 

Mount St. Helens showed important new activity on March 8, 2005, when a 36,000-foot (11,000 m) plume of steam and ash came from the volcano. The plume was seen from as far away as Seattle, a city that is 96 miles away. This fairly small eruption took place because of a new lava dome being formed and a 2.5 magnitude earthquake.

Another feature that grew from the dome is a "fin" or "slab." About half the size of a football field, the large volcanic rock was being moved up as fast as 6 feet (2 m) per day. In mid-June 2006, the slab had rockfalls very often, but was still being pushed up from inside the volcano. 

On October 22, 2006, at 3:13 p.m. PST, a magnitude 3.5 earthquake broke the lava dome. The resulting collapse and avalanche sent an ash plume 2,000 feet (610 m) over the crater, although it quickly disappeared.

On December 19, 2006, a large white plume of steam was seen, and some journalists from the media thought there had been a small eruption. However, the Cascades Volcano Observatory of the United States Geological Survey says that there was no large ash plume, so it could not have been an eruption. The volcano has been erupting on occasion since October 2004.



</doc>
<doc id="17758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17758" title="1795">
1795



</doc>
<doc id="17760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17760" title="Oder-Neisse line">
Oder-Neisse line

The Oder-Neisse line (named after the Oder and Neisse rivers) is the border between Germany and Poland since the end of the Second World War. As a result of the defeat Germany lost another huge part of its territory to Poland after it already had to cede the former Prussian provinces of Posen and Westpreußen as well as parts of upper Silesia to the newly founded Polish state after the First World War in 1919.

The population of the eastern German provinces as well as the German minority population in what was Poland before the Second World War (12 million) either fled before the Russian army to central and western Germany or were later driven out of their homeland by force of the Polish militia who entered immediately after the Russian army.

As Poland annexed the German provinces and expatriated the native population, Polish people occupied those provinces and took over land and property of the expatriated Germans. About 1.5 million of the new inhabitants had been driven out of their own homeland in eastern Poland/Western Urkraine, Belorussia, as the U.S.S.R. was not willing to give back that part of 1922-1939 Poland which it had annexed in 1939.


</doc>
<doc id="17768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17768" title="Jimmy Wales">
Jimmy Wales

Jimmy "Jimbo" Donal Wales was born on August 7, 1966. He is the co-founder of the Wikimedia Foundation. He was also the chairman until October 2006. He is best known as the co-founder of Wikipedia with Larry Sanger. He currently lives in St. Petersburg, Florida.

Wales and Larry Sanger developed a website named Nupedia. It was a free encyclopedia. Then he and Sanger launched the website Wikipedia, which was supposed to be a side project to Nupedia. Instead, it received a lot more interest than Nupedia. It became a large online community with over two million articles.

He also launched another website project called Wikia. He worked on the site with Angela Beesley. 

Wales was replaced as chair of the Wikimedia Foundation by Florence Nibart-Devouard. But after this he was given the name Chairman Emeritus.

Wales has been married twice. He also has one child. When he was 20, Wales married Pam. Pam was a worker at a store in Alabama. He met his second wife, Christine Rohan, through a friend in Chicago. They had a daughter before their marriage ended. Wales moved to San Diego in 1998. In 2002, he moved again to Florida. In 2007, he still lives there.

He says that he follows the idea of Objectivism. He also says that he is a libertarian to some extent.


</doc>
<doc id="17772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17772" title="Exeter">
Exeter

Exeter is a city in England on the River Exe, from which it takes its name. It is the county town of Devon. Its population is just over 100,000. In the city are a ruined castle, much of the old Roman city wall, and Exeter Cathedral.

Exeter was built by the Romans, who called it "Isca Dumnoniorum" (Isca of the Dumnonii, the local British tribe). After the Romans left and the Anglo-Saxons moved into the area in the seventh century, the name changed to Exeter. In the 1060s Exeter was a centre of resistance to the Norman conquest. In 1050 the Bishop of Crediton moved to Exeter; from then until 1876 the bishops were the heads of the church in the whole of Devon and Cornwall. Now only Devon is within the Exeter diocese.

Today it is home to the Meteorological Office, which forecasts the country's weather.


</doc>
<doc id="17795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17795" title="United States Congress">
United States Congress

The United States Congress is the legislative, or law making, branch of the United States government. It meets in the United States Capitol.

It has two houses (parts): The United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate. This two house system is known as a "bicameral" ("bi" is the Latin word for "two", and "camera" is Latin for "chamber" or "room") legislature. There are 435 Representatives in Congress, split between the states based on how many people live in the state. There are 100 Senators in Congress, with two coming from each state.

The rules on what Congress can do are in Article 1 of the United States Constitution. The primary duty of Congress is to write, debate, and pass bills (laws they want). For Congress to pass a bill, both houses must pass exactly the same bill. For each house to pass a bill, more than half of its members must vote in favor of passing the bill. After both house pass the same bill, this bill is then sent to the President. If the President agrees the bill should be a law he or she signs the bill within 10 days. If the president does not agree, then he or she can veto the bill and send it back to Congress. If the bill is neither signed nor vetoed by the president within 10 days, the bill becomes law anyway if Congress does not adjourn (end its session) within that time. If Congress adjourns within that time, the bill does not become a law. Congress may override a president's veto of a bill by having more than two thirds of its members passing the bill. In that case, the bill becomes law even though the president vetoed it. 

Article 1 of the US Constitution lists what subjects Congress can pass laws on. 

Members of Congress cannot be arrested, except for certain crimes, during a session of Congress or going to or returning from a session. 

Each house of Congress can decide to expel (throw out) one of its members if more than two thirds of them vote to expel him or her. 

The political party with the most members in a house of Congress usually decides which bills are voted on in their house. As of 2009, the Democratic Party has the most members in both the House and the Senate.


</doc>
<doc id="17800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17800" title="Charles Cornwallis">
Charles Cornwallis

Lord Charles Cornwallis (1738 December 31 - 1805 October 5) was a British general and colonial governor. He is best known for leading the British forces in the American Revolution.

Cornwallis moved to the 13 colonies in North America in 1776 to try to control the rebelling colonies. He fought at the Battle of Princeton. George Washington led the Americans in that battle. Later, Cornwallis led British forces through North Carolina and South Carolina, where he fought against American forces under Nathanael Greene. In October of 1781, Cornwallis's forces surrendered to George Washington at the Battle of Yorktown, ending the American Revolution.

In 1786 Cornwallis was appointed Governor-General of the British colony of India.

From 1798 to 1801 Cornwallis was Lord Lieutenant and Commander in Chief of Ireland. 


</doc>
<doc id="17804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17804" title="1738">
1738





</doc>
<doc id="17805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17805" title="Battle of Princeton">
Battle of Princeton

The Battle of Princeton was a battle during the American Revolution. It was fought in January of 1777 near Princeton, New Jersey. The battle came a week after the Battle of Trenton, where General George Washington had led the Continental Army to a surprise victory over the British.

The Continental Army, led by Washington, advanced to Princeton after their victory at Trenton. The army defeated a small British force. A larger British force, led by Charles Cornwallis, was alerted and gave chase. However, the Continental Army burned the bridges behind them and sniped at the British army before escaping.

The battle resulted in about 200 casualties (deaths) for the British along with another 300 injured or captured, while the Americans suffered minimal losses. The battle boosted American morale.


</doc>
<doc id="17806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17806" title="Category:Cities in Northern Ireland">
Category:Cities in Northern Ireland


</doc>
<doc id="17807" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17807" title="Category:Cities in the Czech Republic">
Category:Cities in the Czech Republic


</doc>
<doc id="17808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17808" title="Fork">
Fork

A fork is a tool for eating. It has points called "tines". Most forks have three or four tines. Some cooking-forks have two tines. The tines help you pick up your food. Forks are useful only for eating solid food. For example, a fork would be useless for eating soup because all the soup would fall through the tines and into your lap. Most forks are made of metal. Some are made of plastic or wood.

The word "fork" is also used to describe a two choices of course. A fork in the road would be a split in the road leading in two (or more) directions.

Forks are very common in Western Culture. Many countries do not use forks, but instead have their own ways to eat food.


</doc>
<doc id="17809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17809" title="Backgammon">
Backgammon

Backgammon is a game played by two players. Each player moves pieces around a board. Players roll two dice to find out how far their pieces can move in one turn. The winner of one game is the first to get all pieces all the way around, and off, the board.

The game is laid-out asymmetrically. White's direction of travel is counter-clockwise, whereas black's direction of travel is clockwise. (There is no advantage whatsoever to either side due to this asymmetry.)

White moves from white's far right to white's home area on white's close right, in the shape of a right-hand "C" from white's point of view. Black moves along the same "C", beginning from black's far left and ending at black's home area on black's close left. (The "C" is the same for both sides - the "C" points to the right for white and points to the left for black.)

As shown in the image, some pieces (for each side) begin already in the home quadrant, and some pieces must make their way all the way around. Pieces can be sent backwards to their starting position during play.

The roll of two dice introduces a random component in the game, but Backgammon is basically a game of strategy. 
Usual playing time is around 15– 30 minutes, for a single game (which could be thought of as something like one particular long "hand" of a card game). An overall championship or round of backgammon involves a number of ongoing single games, with the involvement of points, a "doubling cube," and other complications.

The game has a long history. Games that resemble it have been played for thousands of years. Archaeologists doing excavations at a place called "Burnt City" in modern-day Iran have found parts of a game that resembled backgammon. They have found 60 pieces to play with, and two dice. They could show that the game utensils date from around 3000 BC. These pieces around 100–200 years older than another set, found in Ur, in Mesopotamia. 


</doc>
<doc id="17810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17810" title="Cell wall">
Cell wall

A cell wall is the wall of a plant cell. Animals' cells do not have cell walls. It is there mainly to protect the cell from damage. It is also there to make the cell strong, to keep its shape, and to control the growing of the cell and plant.

In a plant cell, the cell wall is made of long molecules called cellulose, pectin and hemicellulose. The cell wall lets some proteins in and keeps others out. Water and small molecules can go through to help the cell. The cell wall is the outermost layer of nonliving cellulose and is only found in plant and bacterial cells (prokaryotic cells).


</doc>
<doc id="17811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17811" title="Friction">
Friction

Friction is a force that acts to stop the movement of two touching things. The energy lost to friction is turned into sound and heat. Two kinds of friction are static and kinetic. Static friction is when the friction is strong enough to stop movement between two objects. Kinetic friction is when the frictional force is not strong enough to stop all motion.

Some facts about friction are:








</doc>
<doc id="17813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17813" title="Lima">
Lima

Lima is the capital city (where the government works), and is considered the most important and largest city of Peru. 75% of the Peruvian economy is handled in Lima. 
Lima is the industrial and financial center of Peru, and one of the most important financial centers in Latin America.

It is an important city of South America and the entrance to Peru. Today, the city is always growing. It has a very large population. Over 8 million people live in the metropolitan area, which includes Callao Seaport. Lima is the fifth largest city in Latin America, behind Mexico City, São Paulo, Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro. 

The city was founded by the Spanish conquistador (conqueror) Francisco Pizarro on January 18, 1535. He called it 'La Ciudad de los Reyes' (the City of the Kings). It became the capital and most important city in the Spanish Viceroyalty of Peru. And after the Peruvian War of Independence, it became the capital of the Republic of Peru.

In the 1940s, Lima started a period of rapid growth, with the migration from the Andean regions of Peru, as rural people. They wanted to find better opportunities for work and education. The population, estimated at 0.6 million in 1940, reached 1.9M by 1960 and 4.8M by 1980. 

Lima has developed an important tourism industry, characterized by its historic center, archeological sites, nightlife, museums, art galleries, festivals, and popular traditions.

Lima is made up of mainly Spanish speaking inhabitants with over 90% of the population speaking the language.


</doc>
<doc id="17816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17816" title="Janitor">
Janitor

A janitor (or cleaner) is someone who takes away garbage and cleans surfaces. Janitors often repair things,and maintain their equipment in good working order, as well as dusting, washing, waxing and polishing. "Heavy" duty janitors often move furniture, large containers of recycled materials and waste, and other objects, and operate large buffers and other weighty equipment. "Light" duty janitors clean chalk boards, windows, shelves, desks, light fixtures, and ledges. Some duties, like using a vacuum cleaner, can be done by either "light" or "heavy" duty janitors. Janitors can clean offices, staircases, kitchens, washrooms, hallways, sidewalks, elevators, escalators, and other areas. Janitors can specialize by washing windows, or by cleaning carpets, hospitals, food processing plants, or construction sites. Janitors who discover seriously damaged surfaces and equipment on their sites can notify specialists, like plumbers and carpenters, about the need for professional repairs. Cleaners are also alert for security problems, like vandalism, signs of theft (forced windows or doors, missing computers or stock), blocked fire escape routes, malfunctioning lights or alarm systems, or trespassers. When these occur, the cleaners promptly notify their sites' Security Officers and Site Supervisors. Janitors know how to keep themselves and their sites safe, by immediately removing hazards like broken class, spilled fluids, and waste from kitchens and washrooms, and by checking hand rails, floor mats, stairs, automated doors, escalators, elevators, intercoms, and plumbing.


</doc>
<doc id="17836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17836" title="Bovinae">
Bovinae

Bovinae is a subfamily of the even-toed ungulate family Bovidae. About 26 species of bovines belong to this subfamily.

Bovines are herbivores, and they mostly eat grass.


The four genera "Tetracerus", "Boselaphus", "Tragelaphus" and "Taurotragus" are sometimes put into their own subfamily "Tragelaphinae", and sometimes with the bovines.


</doc>
<doc id="17840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17840" title="Mongolia">
Mongolia

Mongolia is a country between China and Russia, in Asia. Mongolia is a landlocked country in East Asia and Central Asia. It borders Russia to the north and the People's Republic of China to the south, east and west. The capital and largest city, Ulan Bator/ Ulaan Battor, is home to about 38% of the population. Mongolia's political system is a parliamentary republic. Until recently, most of the people there were Buddhists, and many of them are nomads (people who always move and do not stay in one home), but this is changing. The largest city, and capital city is Ulaanbaatar, which has been spelled "Ulan Bator" and other ways in the past. The north and east parts of the country have many mountains, and part of the south part is the Gobi Desert. There are 2,791,272 people living in Mongolia, which is the 18th biggest country in the World, with an area of 1,564,116 square kilometres. The crime rate and the local night life are very low. Their language is Mongolian, but some know English, Chinese and Russian.

The area which is Mongolia has been ruled by various nomadic empires until the great 'Mongol Empire' was founded by Genghis Khan in 1206. After the collapse of the Yuan Dynasty, the Mongols returned to their earlier nomadic lifestyle. After the 16th century, Mongolia came under the influence of Tibetan Buddhism and by the end of the 17th century, most of Mongolia had been incorporated into the area ruled by the Qing Dynasty. During the collapse of the Qing Dynasty in 1911, Mongolia declared independence, but had to struggle with the Soviet Union's help, until 1921 before the world accepted its independence. Mongolia is still a largely rural nation. The Mongolian Red Cross Society was set up in 1939. It has its headquarters in Ulan Bator.
Since the end of the Soviet Union in 1992, Russia and the Ukraine lost interest in Mongolia. China and South Korea are its trade and political partners now. There have been much colder winters over the last few years that have killed many people and cattle.

 Mongolia has always had a steppe climate. It has very cold winters and mild summers. Things have gotten much worse lately. There have been much colder winters over the last few years that have killed many people and cattle.
On June 2, 2008 52 people and 200,000 head of cattle had died in heavy blizzards by the 2nd in Mongolia.

On March 1st to 2nd, a heavy dust storm hit N.E. China and parts of Mongolia. and ended over North Korea and South Korea in the 4th 

21 people had died in a rural Mongolian blizzard on May 8th 2008. parts of the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia were also affected on the 8th of May 2008. 

On June 2 2009, it was said that 15 people and 10,000 head of cattle had died by this date in Mongolia. 

April 1st and 2nd, 2010 had temperatures plummet to -50 degrees in Mongolia’s Tuul valley, The nomad Urna said she bought 400 bundles of grass and tons of animal to help in any more bad weather. The Mongolian Red Cross have said that about 4,500,000 livestock died as a result of the bad weather this year. Tume, who lives in Ulan Bator said that he had noticed that there were several really harsh winters in a row too. He blamed climate change, but experts said that overgrazing by cattle had also killed of most of the country’s grassland.

Mongolia is currently free of bird and swine flu, but 103 air travelers who were suspected victims, and the plane crew of 6, were quarantined for 7 days in Ulaan Bator(Ulaanbaatar) in May 2009. 

It may have come over the border from the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia.




</doc>
<doc id="17845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17845" title="Fourier transform">
Fourier transform

A Fourier transform is a mathematical function that allows to show the different parts of a continuous signal. Fourier transforms are often used to calculate the frequency spectrum of a signal that changes over time. Such signals are found in many applications, like recognising speech or handwriting, but also in cryptography or oceanography. 

A Fourier transform really just shows you what frequencies are in a signal. For instance, if you have a sound wave, and it has the musical notes A and B and C in it, the Fourier transform of that signal will show the frequency on the x-axis, with peaks in the graph at the frequencies of the notes A, B, and C.

You can create many signals by adding together many cosines and sines of different amplitudes and frequencies. The Fourier transform is just the amplitude and phases of these cosines and sines plotted against their respective frequency.

Fourier transforms are important because many signals make more sense when you look at what frequencies are in them, rather than when you look at the signal with time on the x-axis. An example is the audio example above. It would not be obvious that the notes A, B, and C were in the signal just by looking at the signal with respect to time. Also, many systems operate on frequencies separately, so the system can be described by what it does to each frequency. An example of this would be a filter that blocks the high frequencies. It can also be used to solve a kind of equation in mathematics called differential equations.

Calculating a Fourier transform requires understanding integration and imaginary numbers. For anything but the simplest signals, computers are usually used. The Fast Fourier Transform is a way of calculating a Fourier transform much faster with a computer.

Irregular Webcomic's Explanation - Be sure to scroll past the comic. It is a gentle link between this page and the en.wikipedia.org page.


</doc>
<doc id="17846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17846" title="Template:Link FA">
Template:Link FA


</doc>
<doc id="17851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17851" title="1671">
1671


</doc>
<doc id="17852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17852" title="1679">
1679



</doc>
<doc id="17853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17853" title="1691">
1691


</doc>
<doc id="17855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17855" title="1719">
1719




</doc>
<doc id="17856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17856" title="1753">
1753



</doc>
<doc id="17865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17865" title="The Divine Comedy">
The Divine Comedy

The Divine Comedy is an epic poem (a poem that is very long, like a story) written by Dante Alighieri. It is about a trip through the afterlife. The poem is three parts long - the three parts are "Inferno" (Hell), "Purgatorio" (Purgatory), and "Paradiso" (Paradise, or Heaven). "Inferno" is the most famous section of the poem. The poem is about the travels of a man through Christian hell (place for people who have rejected Christ), purgatory (place which does not exist in scripture), and heaven (place for people who believe in Jesus Christ). Note that comedy does not mean funny, yet more like not ending with a bad thing.
The narrator, Dante Alighieri, is lost in front of a giant mountain which symbolizes sin. He finds the Roman poet Virgil, who has to lead him through the nine circles of hell so Dante can be saved.
Souls that did not accept Christ are here. This includes atheists, pagans, and the unbaptized. They did not actively sin, but they could not enter Heaven because of their lack of faith and even Hell would not allow them to enter very far.

The punishment for the souls is not physical, but that they have no hope of seeing Christ, so they are mentally punished.

Beyond the first circle, souls are assigned their place by Minos, who wraps his tail around his legs a corresponding number of times.
In this circle souls who succumb to lust. They are the first ones to be truly punished in Hell. These souls are blown around in a giant storm which will last forever. This symbolizes the power of lust to blow one about aimlessly.
This circle is guarded by Cerberus. The gluttons are punished here, lying in cold mud. While in life they were provided with warmth and comfort from their food, in Hell the souls are punished with cold and heavy rain. Cerberus claws at the spirits, rips at their skin, and bites holes.
In life the sinners miserly hoarded their money greedily, while the prodigal spent their money foolishly. Both groups are pushing and pulling great bags of gold as they did in life. The greedy are guarded by Plutus, god of riches and wealth.
In the river Styx, the wrathful fight each other on the surface. The river surrounds the city of Dis, where active sinners are located. When Virgil tries to enter, the angels of Hell slam the door in his face. He and Dante proceed to the gate where Christ entered Hell during his three-day trip to release a select few people. According to the story of Christ's harrowing of hell, he broke the door so it could never close again.

The heretics are trapped in red-hot iron tombs.

This circle holds those who were violent in their lives. The people who were violent to people and property are in a river of fire. The depth of their placement in the river corresponds to how much you damaged in life. For example, Alexander the Great is immersed up to his eyebrows. The violent against self are turned into plants. The violent to God and the violent to nature are also here. They have to walk on flaming sand for eternity.

Pimps, seducers, flatterers, simonists, sorcerers, fortune-tellers, false prophets, corrupt politicians, hypocrites, thieves, schismatics, alchemists, and counterfeiters are in this circle. Each punishment is the opposite of what they did in life. Fortune-tellers, who tried to see things ahead of time, are forced to walk backwards.

The traitors to family are immersed in ice up to their faces. Traitors to political entities are also here. Traitors to guests lie in the ice, which covers them completely except for their faces. Traitors to their lords and benefactors are completely buried in ice in various positions.

In the very center of Hell, because he sinned the ultimate sin (treachery against God), lies Satan. Satan is described as a beast with three faces, six wings, and is eternally weeping from his six eyes. Each of Satan's mouths chews on a prominent traitor from history. Brutus and Cassius are being chewed feet-first. The center mouth is chewing on Judas. His head is being chewed on by Satan, and his back is being skinned by Satan's claws. 

Dante and Virgil escape by climbing down Satan's fur through the center of the earth and out the other hemisphere, where they will ascend Mount Purgatory.


</doc>
<doc id="17867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17867" title="Artist">
Artist

An artist is a person who creates art. This word is used most often for persons and activities of 'high culture'. That is for example drawing, painting, sculpture, acting, dancing, writing, filmmaking, photography, and music. Sometimes a person who is very good at their job is called an artist, even if it is not considered as art. A scientist or mathematician can be called an artist. 

Wiktionary defines the noun 'artist' (one artist, two artists) as follows:





</doc>
<doc id="17870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17870" title="Jacksonville, Florida">
Jacksonville, Florida

Jacksonville is a city in northeast Florida, USA. It is home to the University of North Florida. It is the county seat of Duval County.

It is the largest city in the Continental United States in terms of area. It covers nearly all of Duval County in North Florida. It is also the largest city in Florida and one of the 15 largest cities in the United States. A football team called the Jacksonville Jaguars plays there.


</doc>
<doc id="17874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17874" title="Fetishism">
Fetishism

Fetishism can be one of the following:


</doc>
<doc id="17878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17878" title="Heinrich Heine">
Heinrich Heine

Christian Johann Heinrich Heine (born as "Harry Heine" 13 December 1797–17 February 1856) was one of the most significant German poets of the 19th century.

Heine was born into an assimilated Jewish family in Düsseldorf, Germany. His father was a tradesman.
After his father's business failed, Heine was sent to Hamburg. His uncle in Hamburg was a very successful banker, so Heine started learning his business, but he droped it later on. Then Heine started to study law at the universities of Göttingen, Bonn and at the Humboldt University of Berlin, but he was more interested in literature than in law. He took a degree in law in 1825. At the same time he had decided to convert from Judaism to Protestantism. This was necessary because of the severe restrictions on Jews in the German states. Only Christians were allowed to have certain businesses or to be clerks of the state. Jews were also forbidden to become university professors, which was a particular ambition for Heine. Heine himself said, his conversion was "the ticket of admission into European culture".
Heine is best known for his lyric poetry, much of which was set to music by lieder composers, esp. Franz Schubert and Robert Schumann.

His start as poet Heine made with "Gedichte" ("Poems") in 1821. Heine's one-sided infatuation with his cousins Amalie and Therese later inspired him to write some of his loveliest lyrics; "Buch der Lieder" ("Book of Songs", 1827) was Heine's first comprehensive collection of verse.

Heine left Germany for Paris, France in 1831. There he associated with utopian socialists. He met people who fellowed Count Saint-Simon, who preached an egalitarian classless society.

He remained in Paris for the rest of his life. His only visit to Germany was in 1843. German authorities banned his works and those of others who were considered to be associated with the Young Germany movement in 1835.

Heine continued to comment on German politics and society from a distance. Heine wrote "Deutschland. Ein Wintermärchen" ("Germany. A Winter's Tale"). In 1844; his friend, Karl Marx, published it in his newspaper "Vorwärts" ("Forward") in 1844.

One of the books was burned by the Nazis. One of Heine's most famous lines is now: "Where they burn books, they will, in the end, burn human beings too" ("Almansor", 1821).




</doc>
<doc id="17880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17880" title="Cabbage">
Cabbage

Cabbage ("Brassica oleracea" Capitata Group) is an edible plant. It is a lot like broccoli or Brussels sprouts. Cabbage is eaten many ways around the world. Coleslaw and sauerkraut are popular foods that use cabbage. It is also used to make kimchi and borscht. Red cabbage juice can be used as a pH indicator. Cabbage is green and red.


</doc>
<doc id="17881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17881" title="Pool">
Pool

The word pool refers to many different things:





</doc>
<doc id="17883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17883" title="Rupee">
Rupee

The Rupee is the name of several kinds of money used in several countries: the Republic of India, Pakistan; it was also used in the erstwhile East Pakistan until 1971, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Mauritius, and the Seychelles. In past times, rupees were also the name of the money used in Burma and in the German and British colonies in East Africa. The name comes from a Sanskrit word meaning silver. The rupiah of Indonesia and the rufiyah of the Maldives are kinds of money that also got their name from this word.


</doc>
<doc id="17889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17889" title="Holocaust">
Holocaust

"For the murders of millions of Jews and other people at the hands of the Nazis in World War II, see The Holocaust."

The word holocaust means "complete destruction by fire". The ancient Greeks killed animals for their gods. This was called sacrifice. They believed some of the gods wanted every part of their sacrifices burnt, not just one part. This was a holocaust. 

Now, the word holocaust means "the intentional killing of a large number of people." 

When the word "Holocaust" is spelled with a capital 'h', it usually means The "Holocaust" during World War II, when the Nazis killed millions of Jews, in the concentration camps.
Some authors include the European Gypsies (Roma) among the victim of the Holocaust. Others maintain that the word "Holocaust" specifically refers to the extermination of the Jewish people. In the case of Jews, the Nazi genocide was based on racial theories, while the Roma people were classified as antisocial because of their lifestyle rather than their race.
The Slavic people were not destined to extermination by the Nazis. Their "rightful place" according to the Nazis was as "lower" people who were to be allowed to live under the German leadership, and to work for the Germans. While thousands of Slavs did perish in Auschwitz, the Poles and Russians were usually kept separately from the Jews and were treated somewhat less cruelly.

There have been many holocausts through history. Some people see the killing of people from ethnic groups in Bosnia, which was called ethnic cleansing, and the killing of large numbers of Aborigines in Australia by settlers as holocausts.
When Europeans came to America, they killed thousands of Native Americans. Some people call that a holocaust, too. 
Millions of Africans were killed while they were held as prisoners or slaves. African-American people and others call this "The Black Holocaust".

The Genocide in Guatemala was similar to the World War II holocaust. Genocide means systematically killing certain groups people because of their nation, race, political beliefs or culture. In Guatemala, the army and paramilitary forces attacked many Guatemalan villages and murdered the people and destroyed their buildings. <includeonly></includeonly><noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="17894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17894" title="Category:1856 deaths">
Category:1856 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17899" title="500">
500

500 (Roman numerals: D) is a common year of the Gregorian calendar. It started on a Friday.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).



</doc>
<doc id="17900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17900" title="1555">
1555




</doc>
<doc id="17901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17901" title="Diesel fuel">
Diesel fuel

Diesel oil or diesel fuel is a type of fuel for cars. It is also an oil used for an energy source.


</doc>
<doc id="17907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17907" title="Düsseldorf International Airport">
Düsseldorf International Airport

Düsseldorf International Airport is an airport located eight kilometres from Düsseldorf, Germany. The airport has the IATA Airport Code DUS. There is one other airport named "Düsseldorf Express Airport, Mönchengladbach", but that is only a continental airport and has only a few lines, mostly private jets.

The international airport supports flights to 180 destinations on four continents and hosts 70 airlines. The airport has 800 takeoffs and landings per day.

The airport was opened on April 19, 1927, after two years of construction. However, the first aircraft to land in northern Düsseldorf was the Zeppelin LZ-III in 1909.

On April 11, 1996 there was a fire in the airport, probably caused by welding work on the roof. 17 people were killed, mostly due to smoke inhalation. The terminal building was badly damaged, and was closed for five years. By July 1, 2001 it had been nearly completely re-built and was re-opened.

A suspended monorail connects the terminal building with the InterCity and ICE train station (High speed and extremely high speed trains). The so-called "SkyTrain" travels the 2.5 kilometers between the terminal and station at a maximum speed of 50 km/h. It started operation in 2002, replacing a shuttle bus service, and is not free of charge to use.

Currently, the following airlines operate routes to and from Düsseldorf International Airport:
Before September 11 Düsseldorf International Airport had many flights from the United States. After direct flights to the United States are only from Privatair and LTU. Privatair has flights going to Chicago O'Hare and New York Newark airports, which are codeshared with Lufthansa. LTU flies to Fort Myers, Los Angeles, Miami, Orlando, and New York (JFK).2005 announced that it would begin service between Düsseldorf and Atlanta in March 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="17908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17908" title="Sauna">
Sauna

A sauna is a small room or building that is made hot. 

Finland invented the sauna.
The heat of a sauna is calming and makes the person using it sweat. This is believed to help people be more healthy. Today many countries and groups of people have different ways of heating and using a sauna. The temperature is often 80°C in Finnish and Swedish saunas. The heat can be more than 100°C. Finnish and Swedish saunas have lower humidity (the air is less wet) to make this high heat comfortable.

The Turkish hammam has a high humidity (the air is more wet) and a lower temperature.

Today saunas can often be found at hotels and places for sports and exercise. In Finland, they are more common and are also often in private apartments and office 
buildings.

In almost every house in Finland they have a sauna.

In some cultures, swimsuits must be worn in a sauna. In other cultures swimsuits are not be worn. Swimsuits are more often worn when men and women use a sauna together. Some saunas are only for men, or only for women. Some places have fixed times when each gender can use a sauna. Private saunas may have their own rules.






</doc>
<doc id="17909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17909" title="Joseph Beuys">
Joseph Beuys

Joseph Beuys (pronounced "boyce") (12 May 1921–23 January 1986) was a German artist who made arts in many forms including sculpture, performance art, video art, and installations. He was one of the most important artists in the second half of the 20th century.

Beuys was born in Krefeld on 12 May 1921, but grew up in the near-by city of Kleve. His family was profoundly catholic. As a young child he began his interest in art by often engaging in making watercolours. He first saw modern art when visiting the studio of Achilles Moortgat. At the age of seventeen in 1938, he joined Hitler Youth, like many young German men at that time. He studied many disciplines before engaging in his art practice, and was particularly interested in natural sciences and history, including alchemy, and focussed on medicine with the intention of becoming a doctor. During his studies, however, World War II began, and he became a soldier in the German air force. There, he was a rear gunner (gunner in the back) in a military airplane. In 1943 one of his close friends died in a concentration camp. 

One fascinating aspect of Joseph Beuys's personal history is the reason he consistently used felt and fat in his works. He is quoted as saying: "For me, fat was a great discovery, because it was the very material that could seem the most chaotic and indeterminate. I could use it with heat or cold, I could transform it with means that are not the traditional ones for sculpture- with temperature, for example. So I could turn the character of this fat from a chaotic and fluctuating condition to that of a rigid form... So I took an extreme position in sculpture and a material that was absolutely fundamental for life and not associated with art.”

Many people believe that this use of felt and fat recalled a plane crash experienced while flying for the "Luftwaffe" in the Crimea in the winter of 1942-43. Beuys claimed that he had been saved by a nomadic tribe of Tartars who, sympathetic to the Germans after persecution by the Soviets, ‘covered my body in fat to help it regenerate warmth, and wrapped it in felt as an insulator to keep warmth in’. In fact this episode was fabricated, partly on the basis of a dream, but he consistently referred to this episode and it can be seen as a private mythology of his.

After the war Beuys studied at the academy in Düsseldorf from 1946 to 1951. For most of the 1950s he was mostly drawing.

In 1961 he became professor of sculpture there, but was fired in 1972 because he said that his classes must be open to anybody who wanted to take them. He thought that classes should be free and he worked in his classes with everybody who wanted. His students protested when he was fired, so he was allowed to hold his studio there, but he still lost his job.

In 1962 Beuys met the "Fluxus movement". They made art together by drawing, sculpting, making music, and literature. Beuys became a member of the group but he was more interested in performances. He believed that art has a larger role to play in society.

Beuys believed that arts has an important rule in society.
His first problems with politicians were when he lost his job as professor.
In the 1980s he was part of the Peace Movement and protested against nuclear missiles in Germany. He was one of the first members of the Green Party in the 1980s.

Famous works are for example:

In 1979, a large retrospective of Beuys' work at the Guggenheim Museum in New York City confirmed his reputation as one of the most important artists of his time. He died in 1986 in Düsseldorf.

The web comic Cat And Girl makes frequent reference to Joseph Beuys, including his art (reference 1 reference 2) and cultural references.



</doc>
<doc id="17912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17912" title="Kunstakademie Düsseldorf">
Kunstakademie Düsseldorf

The Staatliche Kunstakademie Düsseldorf is the Arts Academy of the city of Düsseldorf. It is well-known all over the world by its most famous members like Joseph Beuys.

The arts school started 1762 as school of drawing by Lambert Krahe (1710 - 1790), in 1773 it became Academy of drawing, painting and sculpturing of the Earls of Palatine.

In time of the Napoleonic Wars it moved to Munich. So the government of Prussia, who annexed the region of Düsseldorf after Napoleon surrendered, to open a new Royal Arts Academy in Düsseldorf. It started in 1822.

In the 1850s the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf became an international well-known arts school. The "Düsseldorfer Malerschule" was internationally known as a special kind of drawing countryside. Many students came from Scandinavia, Russia, and the United States of America to Düsseldorf.





</doc>
<doc id="17913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17913" title="Poet">
Poet

A poet is someone who writes poetry. Famous English poets are Alexander Pope, William Wordsworth and Tennyson.There is so many poets around us.


</doc>
<doc id="17915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17915" title="Ruhr-Universität Bochum">
Ruhr-Universität Bochum

The Ruhr-Universität Bochum is one of the biggest universities in Germany. It is located in the Ruhr-Area, in the city of Bochum.

The Ruhr-Universität was the first public university that was founded in West Germany after World War II (in 1962). Later in the 1960s education expanded in West Germany and more universities were founded, but Bochum has a bright selection of subjects because it was the beginning of education expanding.

The Ruhr-University was one of the fourth largest university in Germany in the late 1980s and early 1990's with more than 40,000 students. But after the state of North Rhine-Westfalia decided to earn study fees, many students left the university and school examiners do not start studying anymore. Actually the fees are 1,000 Euro in the year (about 1,100 US$), but the Ruhr-Area is traditionally a working class region. Sommer Semester 2011 was the last semester with tuition fees http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/studienbeitrag/. The number or students now is more than 34 000 http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/universitaet/fakten/menschlich/index.html

The university of Bochum was one of the first to have Bachelor and Master degrees instead of the traditional German Diplom and Magister degree.

The Ruhr-University has about 34,000 students.http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/universitaet/fakten/menschlich/index.html Academically it is an upper middle-class university with a lot of international affairs, especially with Eastern Europe and Asia. The Ruhr-University Bochum lost some subjects by when the state reduced its budget.
The main focuses in research are neurosciences, engineering, European law, plasma physics, solidstate physics, biochemistry, economics, Middle Ages and modern history, philosophy and languages.




</doc>
<doc id="17920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17920" title="Aachen">
Aachen

Aachen is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It has about 260,000 inhabitants and a well-known university, the Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule (RWTH).

The Romans built a spa over hot water springs here in ancient times. 

In the Middle Ages, it was the capital city of the Frankish emperor, Charlemagne. The city was called Aix-la-Chapelle by the French. 
Charlemagne ordered the building of a cathedral in 786 AD. He was buried in a tomb in this cathedral. German emperors were crowned in the cathedral in Aachen until 1531.

European countries made two important peace agreements in Aachen. In 1668, the first treaty (agreement) ended the War of Devolution between France and the alliance of England, Holland and Sweden. The treaty allowed France to keep most of the towns it had captured in Flanders the year before. In 1748, the second treaty ended the War of the Austrian Succession. In this war, France, Prussia, and other nations tried to take territory from the Austrian Empire. The treaty said that Maria Theresa of Austria was the ruler of these territories. It also gave Prussia the territory of Silesia. 

Since 1972, Aachen has been part of the Cologne Government Region.


</doc>
<doc id="17921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17921" title="Marburg">
Marburg

Marburg is a city in Hesse, Germany, on the Lahn river. It is the main town of the Marburg-Biedenkopf Rural Disitrict. It has about 80,000 inhabitants and a small, but well-known university.


</doc>
<doc id="17922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17922" title="Akron, Ohio">
Akron, Ohio

Akron is a large city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is found near the Ohio & Lake Erie canal. It is home to the U.S. rubber industry, including Goodyear tires.



</doc>
<doc id="17923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17923" title="Philipps University of Marburg">
Philipps University of Marburg

The Philipps-University Marburg is the oldest Protestant university of the world, and was founded by Martin Luther's friend Philipp of Hesse in the time of the reformation.

Major areas of research are medicine, nano-science, materials science, and near eastern studies. 




</doc>
<doc id="17924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17924" title="Youngstown, Ohio">
Youngstown, Ohio

Youngstown is a city in Mahoning County, Ohio, United States. It is 65 miles (105 kilometers) south of Cleveland, Ohio and 62 miles (100 kilometers) northwest of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The city is near the Mahoning River.

Youngstown is in a part of the United States that is called the "Rust Belt." It is named this because many steel plants and factories in this area have closed. The city has about 82,000 people. It is Ohio's eighth largest city.


</doc>
<doc id="17925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17925" title="Dortmund">
Dortmund

Dortmund is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is part of the Arnsberg Government Region

Dortmund has about 590,000 inhabitants and is in the Ruhr Area. There is a university in Dortmund. The biggest soccer club is Borussia Dortmund.


</doc>
<doc id="17932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17932" title="Netherlands Antilles">
Netherlands Antilles

The Netherlands Antilles was a country within the Dutch Kingdom. The country was original a group of six islands in the Caribbean Sea. Some were discovered in 1493 by Christopher Columbus, and some were discovered in 1499 by Alonso de Ojeda.

Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao are part of the Leeward Islands. They are located near Venezuela. The islands Sint Maarten, Sint Eustatius, and Saba are part of the Windward Islands. They are located near Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Sint Maarten is separated by two countries, the northern part belongs to France, the southern part is Dutch. 

Aruba left the Netherlands Antilles in 1986. With the departure of Curaçao and Sint Maarten from the Netherlands Antilles on 10 October 2010, the country does not exist anymore. The remaining BES Islands of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba now belong to the Netherlands. 

Because the Netherlands Antilles was a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Dutch Queen was also the Queen of the Netherlands Antilles, but the islands' residents had a government of their own. Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten are now separate countries within the Dutch Kingdom. 

The last Prime Minister of the Netherlands Antilles was Emily de Jongh-Elhage. The last Governor was Frits Goedgedrag, since the 10 October 2010 he is the first Governor of Curaçao.


</doc>
<doc id="17933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17933" title="Alfred Nobel">
Alfred Nobel

Alfred Nobel () (October 21, 1833 – December 10, 1896) was a Swedish scientist, engineer, and weapons manufacturer. He is well known for the invention of dynamite and for creating the Nobel Prize. He left instructions in his will that his money should create the Nobel Prize after reading an article in a French newspaper that called him the "merchant of death" and said that he would be remembered for his invention of dynamite and its ability to kill more people than ever before. Nobel left 31 million kronor (the Swedish currency) to the awards after his death on December 10, 1896.

Nobel was born on October 21, 1833. His father, Immanuel Nobel, was an engineer and inventor. His mother was Andriette Ahlsell Nobel. In 1833, Immanuel Nobel was forced into bankruptcy due to losses in his construction company. 


</doc>
<doc id="17936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17936" title="Pharmacy">
Pharmacy

A pharmacy is a shop where therapeutic drugs are sold. Sometimes a pharmacy is also called a "drug store". The people working in a pharmacy are called pharmacists or chemists (British English). These people can recognise simple diseases and give drugs for some of them.

Certain drugs are special, because they can be addictive, or they change the way other drugs act, or they need to be taken in a special way. These drugs cannot simply be bought at a pharmacy. A prescription is necessary to get them. Medical doctors give out prescriptions, which can then be used to get the drug.

Many pharmacies do not sell drugs only. They also sell beauty products and hygiene-related products, like tampons for women and contraceptives.

Pharmacy is also a branch of chemistry that studies the molecular structure of drugs to find better drugs.



</doc>
<doc id="17937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17937" title="Kiss">
Kiss

People kiss each other by touching each other's lips and their mouth. The meaning of kissing is different in different cultures. Most often, people kiss to show love or affection for each other. Sometimes people kiss as a sign of friendship, sometimes it is a ritual performed to greet someone. 

There are different ways of kissing. People might kiss on the cheeks to greet someone, or to bid them farewell. Depending on the culture it usually does not mean that the kisser loves or likes the person he or she kissed in a romantic way. It is not as normal in Asia and most of North America (not including Miami and Quebec) than in Latin America and Europe, especially in Northern Europe. What is called French kiss is different. It involves touching each others tongue while kissing. Usually it is seen as more intimate than the other forms of kissing.

Many people see kissing as an erotic gesture.

It is possible to spread diseases through kissing. Diseases that are spread through saliva can be spread through kissing. This includes diseases like Herpes and mononucleosis. Getting HIV through kissing seems to be extremely unlikely. Nevertheless, a woman has been infected with HIV by kissing in 1997; both the woman and infected man had gum disease. The virus was transmitted through the man's blood, not his saliva.



</doc>
<doc id="17938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17938" title="Brothel">
Brothel

A brothel is a bar, nightclub or hotel where prostitutes work. People go there to buy sex for money.

In some countries operating brothels is legal, in other countries it is illegal. Examples of countries where brothels are illegal are Canada and most of the United States. Brothels are legal in some countries from Europe, for example. A country which has permissive laws regarding prostitution is the Netherlands.

Most of the time, where legal, brothels need to be registered like other businesses. However even if it is legal to run a brothel, there may still be conflicts with the law. Examples of problem cases are:

Brothels have been known for most of recorded history. At first there was temple prostitution in many Mediterranean and Middle Eastern countries. 
In Ancient Greece and Roman civilizations, brothels were established. Sometimes they were licensed institutions. This was first recorded in Athens in 594 BC. Public sources of the time said it was good that Solon installed the brothel. People said this would reduce the problems caused by sexually unfulfilled sailors and workers. It would also fill money into the public purse. This first official brothel was soon followed by many others, and also influenced the creation of special schools in which various classes of prostitutes (from slavegirls to future courtesans) were trained for their profession.

Brothels use a variety of business models:


The third option (the brothel owner renting space and facilities to prostitutes) gives some way for the brothel owner to say he did not know what is going on. This is especially the case where prostitution is forbidden or restricted. Brothel owners often disguise their actions as running a massage parlor, a bar or a similar venue. 

Allowing such places (while forbidding prostitution) can also give politicians a way to save face when they do not want to put the laws against prostitution into practice.


</doc>
<doc id="17940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17940" title="Latitude">
Latitude

The latitude of the Earth gives the distance north and south of the equator. It is measured in degrees. Latitude is represented by the Greek letter phi, formula_1. It is usually used along with a measurement of longitude in order to pinpoint a location on Earth.


</doc>
<doc id="17943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17943" title="Jaleel White">
Jaleel White

Jaleel White (born November 27, 1976) is an American actor. He is best-known for playing the character of the loveable nerd, Steve Urkel, on the television series "Family Matters", popular in the 1990s.


</doc>
<doc id="17948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17948" title="Chemical substance">
Chemical substance

A chemical substance is any material with a known chemical composition. For example, a sample of water has the same properties and the same ratio of hydrogen to oxygen whether the sample came from a river or was made in a laboratory. Typical chemical substances found in the home include water and salt (sodium chloride). Generally, substances exist as a solid, a liquid, or a gas, and may change between these "phases of matter" when there are changes in temperature or pressure.


</doc>
<doc id="17950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17950" title="Template:User nl">
Template:User nl


</doc>
<doc id="17956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17956" title="South-Chinese tiger">
South-Chinese tiger

The South-Chinese tiger ("Panthera tigris amoyensis") is an almost extinct subspecies of the Tiger. There are now 20 - 30 animals left in the wild and 60 animals in captivity. They live in the Mountains and Forests of South-China. They are 2,50 m in length and 150 kg in weight. In the 1900s there were 200 left in the world then because they were considered pests lots of them were killed. 


</doc>
<doc id="17961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17961" title="Windows XP">
Windows XP

Windows XP is one version of the Windows operating system made by Microsoft. Microsoft released Windows XP on October 25, 2001. XP came after Windows 2000 and Windows Me. It was replaced by Windows Vista which was also replaced by Windows 7. The letters "XP" stand for "eXPerience".
<br\>Windows XP is the most used computer operating system in the world as of today. XP is no longer the most current version of the windows operating system. 

There are two common versions of Windows XP. Windows XP Home Edition is a version made for home users. Windows XP Professional is made for business users, with advanced management features. In addition, Windows XP Media Center Edition is for people who edit videos and pictures a lot. Another special version of XP is called the Tablet PC Edition, for pen-based laptops. 

A version of Windows XP for 64-bit computers was released as Windows XP x64 Edition. It had all the features of Windows XP Professional, but was made to work on 64-bit computers instead of the older 32-bit computers.

There is also a Windows XP Starter Edition, which is sold mostly in developing countries. It is very cheap, because Microsoft wanted to fight the high software piracy rate in those countries. It is very limited and can only be bought with a new computer.

The system requirements for Windows XP Home and Professional editions are:





</doc>
<doc id="17965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17965" title="Crotram">
Crotram

CROTRAM is a group of Croatian companies that make trams. They make a tram called TMK 2200.

Crotram is a consortium (a group of companies that cooperate) made of three companies: Elektroindustrija Koncar(cro. Končar) and Gredelj, both from city of Zagreb, and Duro Dakovic (cro.Đuro Đaković), from Slavonski Brod.

Crotram sells their trams to ZET, the company that is in charge of all the public transport for the city of Zagreb. So far Crotram has only sold TMK 2200s to Zagreb, but they are trying to sell them in other cities.

The TMK 2200 is 32 meters long, and it can go as fast as 70km/h. 202 people can ride at one time.



</doc>
<doc id="18006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18006" title="MediaWiki:Common.css">
MediaWiki:Common.css

/* Main page fixes */
.interwiki-completelist {

/* Hide things */
body.page-Main_Page #ca-delete,
body.page-Main_Page #ca-move,
 display: none;

/* Make the list of references smaller */
ol.references,
div.reflist,
div.refbegin {
div.reflist ol.references {

/* VALIDATOR NOTICE: the following is correct, but the W3C validator doesn't accept it */
/* -moz-* is a vendor-specific extension (CSS 2.1 4.1.2.1) */
/* column-count is from the CSS3 module "CSS Multi-column Layout" */
/* Please ignore any validator errors caused by these two lines */
.references-2column {

/* default skin for navigation boxes */
table.navbox {

table.navbox th {

table.navbox tr:not(:first-child) th {

@media print {

.collapseButton { /* 'show'/'hide' buttons created dynamically by the */

.navbox .collapseButton { /* In navboxes, the show/hide button balances the vde links from */

/* Infobox template style */

.infobox {
.infobox td,
.infobox th {
.infobox caption {
.infobox.bordered {
.infobox.bordered td,
.infobox.bordered th {
.infobox.bordered .borderless td,
.infobox.bordered .borderless th {

.infobox.sisterproject {

@media print {

/* styles for bordered infobox with merged rows */
.infobox.bordered .mergedtoprow td,
.infobox.bordered .mergedtoprow th {

.infobox.bordered .mergedrow td,
.infobox.bordered .mergedrow th {

/* styles for geography infoboxes, e.g. countries, country subdivisions, cities, etc. */

.infobox.geography {

.infobox.geography td,
.infobox.geography th {
.infobox.geography .mergedtoprow td,
.infobox.geography .mergedtoprow th {

.infobox.geography .mergedrow td,
.infobox.geography .mergedrow th {

.infobox.geography .mergedbottomrow td,
.infobox.geography .mergedbottomrow th {

.infobox.geography .maptable td,
.infobox.geography .maptable th {

/* Style for "notices" */
.notice {

 border-top: 1px solid #ccc;

 border-top: 2px solid #ddd;

/* Standard talk template style */

.Talk-Notice {

.Talk-Notice:after {

/* Make template background appear correctly on all browsers */
.Talk-Notice td {

/* Persondata */
table.persondata {
.persondata-label {

/* Choose whether to have AD/BC dates or CE/BCE dates*/

/* First, the default : display both : See templates ADCE and BCEBC for how these are used*/

/* If you want to display AD and BC add the following to User:You/monobook.css page */

/*If you want to display CE and BCE add the following to User:You/monobook.css page */

/* Class for links with loudspeaker icon next to them */

.audiolink a{

/* Icons for medialist templates , , , */

div.listenlist {

div.videolist, div.multivideolist {

/* Style rules for media list templates */

div.medialist {

div.medialist ul {

div.medialist ul li {

div.medialist ul li li {

/* Content in columns with CSS instead of tables */
div.columns-2 div.column {

div.columns-3 div.column {

div.columns-4 div.column {

div.columns-5 div.column {

/* Messagebox templates */

.messagebox {
.messagebox.merge {
.messagebox.cleanup {
.messagebox.standard-talk {

/* Put a checker background at the image description page only visible if the image has transparent background */


/* Support for Template:IPA, Template:Unicode and Template:Polytonic. The inherit declaration resets the font for all browsers except MSIE6. The empty comment must remain. Please copy any changes to and . */
.IPA {
.Unicode {
.latinx {
.polytonic {
.mufi {

 font-weight: bold;

/* class hiddenStructure is defunct. See */
.hiddenStructure {

/* Removes underlines from links */
.nounderlines a {

/* Remove underline from IPA links */
.IPA a:link, .IPA a:visited {

/* Removes useless links from printout */
@media print {


.messagebox.small-talk {

/* Standard Navigationsleisten, aka box hiding thingy from .de. Documentation at . */

div.Boxmerge,
div.NavFrame {
div.Boxmerge div.NavFrame {
div.NavFrame + div.NavFrame {
div.NavPic {
div.NavFrame div.NavHead {
div.NavFrame p {
div.NavFrame div.NavContent {
div.NavFrame div.NavContent p {
div.NavEnd {
a.NavToggle {

/* Coloured watchlist numbers */
.mw-plusminus-pos {

/* .mw-plusminus-null currently at developer default */

.mw-plusminus-neg {

.dablink {

/* Style for horizontal UL lists */
.horizontal ul {

.horizontal li {

.horizontal li:last-child {

/* Geographical coordinates

To display coordinates using the notation in the source code, write this in your User:Username/monobook.css:

To display coordinates using decimal notation, write this in your User:Username/monobook.css:

To display coordinates using DMS notation, write this in your User:Username/monobook.css:

To display coordinates in both decimal and DMS notation, write this in your User:Username/monobook.css:

See for how these are used.

Note that the classes "geo", "longitude", and "latitude" are not just styles but also used by the Geo microformat, so the names should not be changed.

.longitude .latitude {

/* This is used for the Geo microformat, but no style is needed for now other than .geo-dec. */

/***** end Geo-related */

/* When <div class="nonumtoc"> is used on the table of contents, the ToC will display without numbers */
.nonumtoc #toc ul,
.nonumtoc .toc ul {
.nonumtoc #toc ul ul,
.nonumtoc .toc ul ul {
margin: 0 0 0 2em;

/* Allow limiting of which header levels are shown in a TOC; <div class="toclimit-3">, for

/* Allow transcluded pages to display in lists rather than a table. Compatible in Firefox; incompatible in IE6. */

/* Styling for Template:Quote */

blockquote.templatequote div.templatequotecite {

blockquote.templatequote div.templatequotecite cite {

div.user-block {

/* Prevents line breaks in links; see docs at Template:Nowraplinks */

.nowraplinks a {

/* For template documentation */
.template-documentation {

.thumbinner {
min-width:100px;

/* Cell sizes for ambox/tmbox/imbox/cmbox/ombox/fmbox/dmbox message boxes */
th.mbox-text, td.mbox-text { /* The message body cell(s) */
td.mbox-image { /* The left image cell */
td.mbox-imageright { /* The right image cell */

/* Article message box styles */
table.ambox { /* 10% = Will not overlap with other elements */
.ambox th.mbox-text,
.ambox td.mbox-text { /* The message body cell(s) */
.ambox td.mbox-image { /* The left image cell */
.ambox td.mbox-imageright { /* The right image cell */

table.ambox-notice {
table.ambox-speedy {
table.ambox-serious,
table.ambox-delete { /* "serious" is deprecated, use "delete" instead. */
table.ambox-content {
table.ambox-style {
table.ambox-merge,
table.ambox-move { /* "merge" is deprecated, use "move" instead. */
table.ambox-protection {

/* Image message box styles */
table.imbox {
.imbox .mbox-text .imbox { /* For imboxes inside imbox-text cells. */
.mbox-inside .imbox { /* For imboxes inside other templates. */

table.imbox-notice {
table.imbox-speedy {
table.imbox-delete {
table.imbox-content {
table.imbox-style {
table.imbox-move {
table.imbox-protection {
table.imbox-license {
table.imbox-featured {

/* Category message box styles */
table.cmbox {

table.cmbox-notice {
table.cmbox-speedy {
table.cmbox-delete {
table.cmbox-content {
table.cmbox-style {
table.cmbox-move {
table.cmbox-protection {

/* Other pages message box styles */
table.ombox {
table.ombox-small { /* For the "small=yes" option */

table.ombox-notice {
table.ombox-speedy {
table.ombox-delete {
table.ombox-content {
table.ombox-style {
table.ombox-move {
table.ombox-protection {

/* Talk page message box styles */
table.tmbox {
table.tmbox-small { /* For the "small=yes" option */
.mbox-inside .tmbox { /* For tmboxes inside other templates. */

table.tmbox-speedy {
table.tmbox-delete {
table.tmbox-content {
table.tmbox-style {
table.tmbox-move {
table.tmbox-protection,
table.tmbox-notice {

/* Disambig and set index box styles */
table.dmbox {
/* Footer and header message box styles */
table.fmbox {
table.fmbox-system {
table.fmbox-warning {
table.fmbox-editnotice {
/* Div based "warning" style fmbox messages. */
div.mw-warning-with-logexcerpt,
div.mw-lag-warn-high,
div.mw-cascadeprotectedwarning,
div#mw-protect-cascadeon {
/* Div based "system" style fmbox messages. 
div.mw-lag-warn-normal,
div.fmbox-system {
/* These mbox-small classes must be placed after all other 
body.mediawiki table.mbox-small { /* For the "small=yes" option. */
body.mediawiki table.mbox-small-left { /* For the "small=left" option. */

/* Highlight clicked reference in blue to help navigation */
ol.references > li:target,
sup.reference:target,
span.citation:target {

/* For linked citation numbers and document IDs, where
@media screen, handheld {

</doc>
<doc id="18018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018" title="Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope">
Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope

Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope was the first of the "Star Wars" movies created by George Lucas. The movie was released in 1977 and is a mix of science fiction, fantasy, action and drama.

Princess Leia Organa is a prisoner to the evil Empire. She was captured by Darth Vader, who is helping the Empire stop a rebellion, by using the Death Star. Luke Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Han Solo work together to rescue her. They are helped by the droids (or robots) R2-D2 and C-3PO. With the princess, they try to stop the Empire and bring peace and happiness to the galaxy.





</doc>
<doc id="18021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18021" title="Saint Kitts and Nevis">
Saint Kitts and Nevis

The Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis (, also known as the Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis), is a federal nation made up of two small islands in the Caribbean Sea. It is the smallest independent country in the Western Hemisphere.

The capital city, Basseterre, is located in the main island of St Kitts. The island of Nevis has some rights of self government and two seats in the federal parliament.

St Kitts and Nevis is about one-third of the way from Puerto Rico to Trinidad and Tobago.

St Kitts is also the base for the headquarters of the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, which is the bank that controls the East Caribbean dollar.

The two islands were part of the Leeward Islands Colony from 1871 to 1956, and of the West Indies Federation from 1958 to 1962.

The Islands, plus Anguilla, got limited self-government in 1967. Anguilla objected and the Metropolitan Police were sent there in 1968 to stop rioting. Until 19 December 1980 the official name of St Kitts and Nevis was Saint Christopher, Nevis and Anguilla.

St Kitts and Nevis became an independent Commonwealth realm in 1983, Anguilla has stayed a British overseas territory.

In 1970 a movement to make Nevis separate from St Kitts started.

In 1983 the constitution set up a 15 member National Assembly. The Assembly is unicameral, that is, it only has one chamber. 3 members of the Assembly are appointed by the Governor General, on the advice of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. The other members are elected. If the Speaker decides to stand for re-election he is automatically elected, without a contest.

Nevis is responsible for its own internal affairs.

There is an eight member Nevis Island Assembly, plus and Island administration, of at least two members, headed by the premier.



</doc>
<doc id="18022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18022" title="Danish language">
Danish language

Danish is the Germanic language spoken in Denmark, the Faroe Islands, and parts of Greenland and Germany (Southern Schleswig). Around 5.5 million people speak Danish. It is used as a second language in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The Danish people, or "Danes", call their language "dansk".

Here are some simple words in Danish:


</doc>
<doc id="18023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18023" title="Niger">
Niger

Niger is a country in western Africa. The capital is Niamey, and the official language is French. It is surrounded by Algeria and Libya to the north, Chad to the east, Nigeria and Benin to the south, and Burkina Faso and Mali to the west. Niger is landlocked, meaning it has no coastline. Niger shares a name with an African river. The Mali Empire and the Songhai Empire both had land in what is now Niger. Later France controlled the land that is now Niger. Niger has a population, or the number of people living in an area, of 15,306,252 and an area of 1,267,000 square kilometres. Much of Niger is desert.



</doc>
<doc id="18026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18026" title="Zealand">
Zealand

Zealand is an island of Denmark. It is the biggest island. Over two million people live on it. Copenhagen, the capital city of Denmark, is on the island.


</doc>
<doc id="18027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18027" title="Template:Languageskills">
Template:Languageskills


</doc>
<doc id="18029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18029" title="Brunei">
Brunei

The Sultanate of Brunei is a country in South-East Asia. It is next to the countries named Malaysia and Indonesia. The capital of Brunei is Bandar Seri Begawan. The country has a small area and not many people live there. The leader of the country is the Sultan of Brunei. He is one of the richest people in the world, because he owns a lot of oil. The main religion in Brunei is Islamnd there are also many people who follow Buddhism or Animism. The native language of Brunei is Malay, although the English language is often used there.

From the 14th to the 16th centuries Brunei Darussalam was the seat of a powerful sultanate extending over Sabah, Sarawak and the southern Philippines. Thus, the current Sultan represents one of the oldest continuously ruling dynasties in the world. By the 19th century, the Brunei Darussalam Empire had been whittled away by wars, piracy and the colonial expansion of European powers.

In 1847, the sultan concluded a treaty with Great Britain and in 1888 Brunei Darussalam officially became a British protectorate. In 1906, the Residential System was established in Brunei Darussalam. A British Resident was nominated as a representative of the British government to advise the sultan in all matters except Malay customs, traditions and Islamic religion.

The 1959 Agreement established a written constitution which gave Brunei Darussalam internal self-government. In 1971, the agreement was amended and revised to assert full internal independence except defence and external affairs.

In 1967 His Highness Sultan Haji Sir Muda Omar Ali Saifuddien abdicated in favour of his son Pengiran Muda Mahkota Hassanal Bolkiah. On January 1, 1984 Brunei Darussalam resumed full independence and the Sultan took office as Prime Minister, Finance Minister and Home Affairs Minister, presiding over a cabinet of six. In October 1986, the cabinet was expanded to 11 members, with His Majesty relinquishing the portfolios of Finance and Home Affairs and taking over the Defence portfolio which his late father had held since 1984. In 1988 another reshuffle brought about the elevation of the deputy minister to a full minister and the creation of the Ministry of Industry and Primary Resources designed to boost the country's development.

Given that Brunei is a oil-rich country, Brunei gets most of its income from selling natural resources.

Brunei uses the Brunei Ringgit to trade. However, the Singapore dollar can be used here as both currencies are of the same value.


</doc>
<doc id="18031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18031" title="Taka">
Taka

Taka is the name of the currency of Bangladesh. 100 Taka are about 1.50 US dollars (December 2005).


</doc>
<doc id="18032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18032" title="Bogotá">
Bogotá

Bogota is the capital (city) of Colombia. In 2009 more than 7 million people live in Bogota which is the largest city in Colombia. It is about 2,640 meters above sea level, on top a plateau (a mountain with a flat top). This makes it the third highest capital in the world. With many universities and libraries, Bogotá has become known as "The Athens of South America".The weather is usually nice during the day and cool at night. It has a series of bike paths (trails that are made for bikes) that wind through the city. It has many recreational and amusement parks open to the public. Samuel Moreno was elected mayor of Bogota on October 29, 2007. He assumed his office on January 1, 2008.

Bogota was founded back in 1538 by Gonzalo Jimenes de Quezada, a Spanish conqueror. Bogota has had extremely awful moments. In 1948, a presidential candidate, Jorge Elieser Gaitan, was murdered while doing a speech in front of hundreds of persons. This tragic moment brought with it terrible consequences: one of the most remembered one is the "Bogotazo". The "Bogotazo" started as a political party war, the blue party, self named the "conservatives", began to hunt and kill every single member of the red party, the "liberals". Such a sadistic event had not been seen in the history of Colombia since the independence war of this very country. Seeing this terrible unfair situation, the remaining blue party members decided to create the "Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia" (FARC); however, this group was ironically created to protect the oppressed people from their oppressors. Nowadays, this group is known as terrorists and murderers;nevertheless, Colombia's capital city, Bogota, has not being attacked in the last few years.


</doc>
<doc id="18033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18033" title="Aymara">
Aymara

The Aymara are members of a tribe of Native Americans that live in Bolivia and Peru. They are native to the area around Lake Titicaca. They speak the Aymara language. They call themselves Aymaras. 

The president of Bolivia, Evo Morales, is Aymara.

The many-colored flag of the tribe is called the Wiphala.


</doc>
<doc id="18034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18034" title="Perihelion">
Perihelion

The perihelion is the point in the orbit of a planet, asteroid or comet where it is nearest to the sun.

The word perihelion stems from the Greek words "peri" (meaning "near") and "helios" (meaning "sun").

All planets, comets and asteroids in our solar system have elliptical (non-circular) orbits. Thus, they all have a closest and a farthest point from the sun: a perihelion and an aphelion.

Earth comes closest to the sun every year around January 3. It is farthest from the sun every year around July 4. The difference in distance between Earth's nearest point to the sun in January and farthest point from the sun in July is not very great. Earth is about 146 million kilometers from the sun in early January, in contrast to about 150 million kilometers in early July.

When Earth is closest to the sun, it is winter in the northern hemisphere and summer in the southern hemisphere. Thus it is possible to see that Earth's distance from the sun does not cause the season to change. Instead, Earth's seasons come and go because Earth does not orbit exactly upright with respect to the plane of our world’s orbit around the sun. Earth's axis is tilted to that plane by 23-and-a-half degrees. The Earth's tilted axis itself rotates about the notional axis orthogonal (perpendicular) to the orbital plane, almost precisely once per year. Winter falls on that part of the globe where sunlight strikes least directly. Summer falls on that part of the globe where sunlight strikes most directly.


</doc>
<doc id="18035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18035" title="Johnston Atoll">
Johnston Atoll

The island is named after Captain James Johnston, who discovered it in 1807. The island was mined for guano until 1890. After that, it was used as an army base.


</doc>
<doc id="18036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18036" title="Llama">
Llama

A Llama ("Lama glama") is a mammal of the "Camelidae" family. It is from South America, the Andes Mountains of Peru and Ecuador.

Sometimes the name "llama" is used for all four South American camelids.

The llama was domesticated about 5000 years ago. It was and is used for carrying things, and for wool. The llama was very important for the Incan people. Even today, llamas are used for similar reasons, but will more commonly be found to be domesticated pets. The llama's close relative is the alpaca, who is a more demure, petite animal in comparison to the llama. Llamas have two related cousins,alpaca and the vicuna. The llama is the national symbol of Bolivia.


</doc>
<doc id="18037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18037" title="Garbage">
Garbage

Garbage is what someone leaves behind that they do not want to use anymore. It can also be called waste or rubbish. A definition of garbage is anything left behind at a place where you used to be, but are not anymore. In modern homes and businesses, however, garbage is normally separated and put where it can be collected and taken to a place designed to hold ("landfill"), burn ("incinerate"), or recycle garbage.


</doc>
<doc id="18039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18039" title="1840s">
1840s






</doc>
<doc id="18041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18041" title="Mexican–American War">
Mexican–American War

The Mexican–American War took place between 1846 and 1848 between the United States of America and Mexico. 

When Mexico got independence from Spain in 1821, Texas was part of Mexico. Americans and other settlers came into Texas when Mexico allowed non-Spanish settlers to settle here. After many settlers came to Texas, Mexico started taxing non-citizens. This made many settlers outraged. When Mexico banned slavery, many slave owners from the South were even more outraged. On March 2, 1836, Texas declared independence from Mexico and soon they were at war. Texas won, but Mexico refused to recognize Texas as an independent country. Texas soon asked to become a state of the United States. Years later, in 1845, the US annexed Texas, and Mexico broke off diplomatic relations. The United States offered to buy from Mexico the land extending from Texas to the Pacific Ocean, but Mexico wanted to keep that vast area. In 1846, a dispute over the border between Texas and Mexico resulted in armed conflict, and the Mexican–American War began. 

Some maintain that the United States provoked the border dispute so they could win the territory that Mexico would not sell. There was strong sentiment in the United States that the country was destined to expand to cover the entire continent.

In addition to small units sent to California and New Mexico, the United States sent two major armies into Mexico under the commands of General Winfield Scott and future President of the United States General Zachary Taylor. 

After the U.S. had entered Mexico, the Mexican general Antonio López de Santa Anna took command of the Mexican soldiers in early 1847. The U.S. forces fought Santa Anna near Monterrey and Buena Vista. After Buena Vista, the Mexican army had many problems, including starvation, disease, and desertion. The Mexican government was unstable. In March 1847, Scott landed at Veracruz. His force included future Civil War generals Robert E. Lee,Ulysses S. Grant, Stonewall Jackson and George Meade, as well as Commodore Perry. Scott took Puebla in May, and took Mexico City in September after the battle of Battle of Chapultepec.

When American soldiers came to California, there was something going on called the Bear Flag Revolt. That was where California was attempting to leave Mexico and form its own country, as Texas had done. In July and August 1846, American soldiers captured Monterey, Yerba Buena and Los Angeles. After a counterattack by the "Californios", the Americans had taken much of California by 1847. The Mexican governor of California, Pio Pico, left the state.

The United States won the war and Mexico signed the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848. The treaty gave the U.S. lands that would become the states of Arizona, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, southwestern Colorado, and southwestern Wyoming. Mexico received 15 million dollars and gave up its claims to Texas.

The slavery debate in the United States became more intense with the addition of the new territory and the question of whether slavery would be legal in these new territories. Also, many of the officers who would lead troops in the American Civil War fought in the war and would use their experiences in the coming Civil War.



</doc>
<doc id="18042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18042" title="European Revolutions of 1848">
European Revolutions of 1848

The European Revolutions of 1848 were a series of revolts in Europe. In some places they are called Spring of Nations or the Year of Revolution.

These revolutions started in February with the French Revolution of 1848, continued in March with several other revolutions amongst them the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 and the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states.
The people of the countries tried to take over their governments.


</doc>
<doc id="18043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18043" title="Edvard Grieg">
Edvard Grieg

Edvard Grieg (born 15 June 1843 Bergen, Norway; died 4 September 1907) was a Norwegian composer and pianist who composed in the Romantic period. He is Norway’s most famous composer. He is best known for his Piano Concerto in A minor and for his incidental music to Henrik Ibsen's play "Peer Gynt" which includes movements called "Aubade" and "In the Hall of the Mountain King". He was usually at his best when writing shorter pieces, such as the collection of piano pieces called "Lyric Pieces". He also wrote some very lovely songs to Norwegian and to German words.

Grieg was born in Bergen on 15 June 1843. His ancestors were Scottish people who had moved to Norway around 1770. The original family name was spelt "Greig".

Grieg came from a musical home. His mother was his first piano teacher. He went to several schools, and started composing when he was young. He used to take his compositions to school, but the teacher did not show much interest in them.

In the summer of 1858 Grieg met the great Norwegian violinist Ole Bull, who was a friend of the family, and whose brother was married to Grieg's aunt. Bull noticed the 15-year-old boy's talent and persuaded his parents to let him go to Leipzig in Germany to study music.

Grieg enrolled in the conservatory, concentrating on the piano, and enjoyed all the concerts and recitals given in Leipzig. He did not like the discipline of the conservatory course of study, but he still got very good grades. The first piano recital he gave was in Sweden. In 1862 he finished his studies in Leipzig and went back to Bergen where he gave another recital.

In 1863 Grieg went to Copenhagen, Denmark, and stayed there for three years. He met the Danish composers J. P. E. Hartman, and Niels Gade. Gade told him to go and write a symphony. Grieg did not feel happy writing a long symphony although he did try. He also met the Norwegian composer Rikard Nordraak who had composed the Norwegian national anthem. Nordraak showed Grieg how wonderful Norwegian folk music was. Grieg had hardly heard any Norwegian folk music until then. When Nordraak died, Grieg composed a funeral march in his honour.

On 11 June 1867, Grieg married his first cousin Nina. The next year their only child, Alexandra, was born. The following summer, Grieg wrote his Piano Concerto in A minor while on holiday in Denmark. Edmund Neupert gave the concerto its first performance on 3 April 1869 in the Casino Theater in Copenhagen. Grieg himself was unable to be there because he was conducting in Christiana (now called “Oslo”).
In the summer of 1869, Grieg's daughter Alexandra became ill and died, at the age of 13 months.

In 1870 he met Franz Liszt in Rome. Liszt had made it possible for Grieg to get a travel grant. They played Grieg's Violin Sonata No. 1 together, which Liszt liked very much.. On a second visit, in April, Grieg brought with him the manuscript of his Piano Concerto which Liszt played by sight. Liszt gave him some advice about the orchestration.

Grieg spent most of his time conducting and playing the piano in concerts. He often travelled, and in 1876 he went to Bayreuth to hear the first performance of Wagner’s Ring cycle. He wrote a review of the operas for a Norwegian newspaper.

In 1876, Ibsen asked Grieg to write some incidental music for the first performance of the play he had written about the Norwegian hero Peer Gynt. Many of the pieces from this work became very popular. They are played by orchestras as well as in arrangements for piano or for piano duet.

In 1883 he and wife parted for a while, although friends managed to persuade the couple to come together again and they spent four months in Rome. They built a house called Troldhaugen in Bergen, with a view of the fjord. They moved into the house in 1885 and Grieg lived there for the rest of his life. They continued to travel and give concerts. Nina had a good voice and sang her husband’s songs. Grieg only performed his own works at concerts. During his last years he received many honours.

In his later life Grieg became famous, although never rich. The Norwegian government gave him a pension. Grieg made some recordings of his piano pieces. These are some of the very first gramophone recordings that were made. The sound is not very good, but they show that Grieg was an excellent pianist. He also recorded music rolls on a pianola.

Edvard Grieg died in the autumn of 1907, aged 64, after a long illness. He had suffered from respiratory problems ever since he was very ill in 1860 as a student in Leipzig. At his funeral thousands of people went out on the streets of his home town to honour him. Following his wish, his own funeral march for Rikard Nordraak was played, as well as the funeral march by Frederic Chopin. His and his wife's ashes are buried in a mountain crypt near his house, Troldhaugen.

Grieg was often inspired by Norwegian folk music. This can be heard in his songs and some of his instrumental music. His chamber music includes 3 violin sonatas and a cello sonata as well as a piano sonata and many shorter piano pieces. However, he has become very well known all over the world through his Piano Concerto and his music for "Peer Gynt". Another popular work is his "Holberg Suite" which was originally written for the piano but later arranged for string orchestra.

The famous opening of Grieg’s Piano Concerto featured in a comedy sketch by Morecambe and Wise in the 1970s. The conductor André Previn was their special guest in the sketch which has become a classic.


</doc>
<doc id="18044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18044" title="Palmyra Atoll">
Palmyra Atoll

Palmyra Atoll is an island in the North Pacific Ocean. No one lives there.but 4 to 20 people used this island. It is managed as a nature reserve by the United States. It is known as the "Palmyra Atoll National Wildlife Refuge". 

In 2005, a team of scientists from all over the world started to build a research station on the island. They wanted to study the environment of the island.


</doc>
<doc id="18045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18045" title="Kingman Reef">
Kingman Reef

Kingman Reef is a coral reef in the North Pacific Ocean, owned by the United States. It is owned directly by the federal government 

It is the farthest north of the Northern Line Islands. It is only sometimes above water. 

Palmyra Atoll is the other U.S. territory in the Northern Line Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="18046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18046" title="Jarvis Island">
Jarvis Island

Jarvis Island is an island owned by the United States. The small island is a part of the United States Minor Outlying Islands, a group of mostly uninhabited islands. 

Jarvis Island was officially made part of the United States in 1858. People used to mine guano there, but they then abandoned it. The United States treats it as a nature reserve.


</doc>
<doc id="18047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18047" title="Robert E. Lee">
Robert E. Lee

Robert Edward Lee (1807 – 1870) was a Confederate States of America army general. He led the Army of Northern Virginia during the American Civil War, and is still considered one of America's greatest generals. He started out as a engineer but then moved up the ranks. Before the Civil War, Lee was an officer in the Mexican-American War. He was also head of West Point, and led the troops that caught John Brown. He was born on January 19, 1807. He lived in Arlington, Virginia on the land that is now Arlington National Cemetery. 


</doc>
<doc id="18048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18048" title="1830s">
1830s






</doc>
<doc id="18049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18049" title="1820s">
1820s






</doc>
<doc id="18050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18050" title="1819">
1819



</doc>
<doc id="18052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18052" title="Isaiah">
Isaiah

Isaiah was a prophet of God, who lived from about 740 to 681 BC. The name Isaiah means "the Lord is salvation" in the Hebrew language. 

Isaiah is also the name of a book in the Old Testament of the Bible, which tells the story of Israel in his time. Isaiah predicted in this book, the birth and then death of Jesus, hundreds of years before.


</doc>
<doc id="18056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18056" title="Leopold Poetsch">
Leopold Poetsch

Leopold Poetsch was a German professor and a high school teacher of Adolf Hitler who influenced the future leader's later views. 

Poetsch came from the southern German border area. There, political fights between Slavs and ethnic Germans angered him and made him one who was for the Pan-German movement. He started to teach in Maribor, Slovenia and later moved to Linz, Austria to teach history.

Hitler was very interested in what Poetsch said. Poetsch hated the Habsburgs and argued that all ethnic Germans should be united by a single government. He said that the Aryan race was stronger, in better health, and more fit to rule than all other people. Poetsch said that Jews and Slavs were what he called "inferior races". (This view was held a lot in Germany after World War I.)

Hitler began reading an anti-Semitic newspaper in his area. In his later years, Hitler spoke of Poetsch as a "great man." As dictator of Germany, Hitler tried to get all German-speaking people together and persecuted Slavs, Jews, Gypsies, and others. Hitler later tried to kill them all in the "Final Solution."



</doc>
<doc id="18059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18059" title="Armenian Genocide">
Armenian Genocide

The Armenian Genocide was the forcible deportation and massacring of Armenians during the government of the Young Turks from 1915 to 1917 in the Ottoman Empire.

In November 1914, the Ottoman Empire went into the World War I on the side of the Central Powers. İsmail Enver, who was then the Minister of War, launched a disastrous military campaign against Russian forces in the Caucasus in hopes of capturing the city of Baku. His forces were routed at the Battle of Sarikamis, and many more of his men froze to death.

Returning to Istanbul, Enver largely blamed the Armenians living in the region for actively siding with the Russians. In 1914, the Ottoman Empire's "War Office" had already begun a propaganda drive to present Armenians living in the Ottoman Empire as a liability and threat to the country's security. An Ottoman naval officer in the War Office described the planning:

The Ottoman government, moving quickly, arrested an estimated 250 Armenian intellectuals on the night of 24 April 1915.

The Turkish massacres of Armenians in 1894, 1895, 1896, and 1909 were still fresh in their minds.

The Armenian Genocide is said to have impacted Adolf Hitler, according to his many references to the Ottoman killings of Armenians. The extent of Hitler's knowledge of the Armenian Genocide is unclear, though he did refer to their destruction several times. The most known quote attributed to Hitler on the Armenians is taken from an August 1939 military meeting, prior to the invasion of Poland:




</doc>
<doc id="18060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18060" title="Prime Minister of the United Kingdom">
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom

The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is the highest elected office in the United Kingdom. The current Prime Minister is David Cameron who succeeded Gordon Brown on 11 May 2010. 

The Prime Minister is the leader of the political party which wins most seats- spaces on the chairs in the house of Commons, after they are elected to tell other politicians about problems in their local area- in the House of Commons. Voters vote for their own local MP, not for the Prime Minister.

The first Prime Minister was Robert Walpole in the eighteenth century, but he was known as the First Lord of the Treasury. The first person to be officially called "Prime Minister" was Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman in 1905.

Other well-known prime ministers include Winston Churchill, Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair.
The Prime minsters live in No.10 Downing Street while in office.


</doc>
<doc id="18061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18061" title="River Forth">
River Forth

The River Forth is a river in Scotland. It flows through the city of Edinburgh, and it flows into the sea.


</doc>
<doc id="18062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18062" title="Alejandro Toledo">
Alejandro Toledo

Alejandro Toledo is a former president of Peru. He won the 2001 election for President.

He is from the town of Chimbote in Ancash Region, Peru. He is married to Eliane Karp of Belgium.


</doc>
<doc id="18063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18063" title="Inuktitut">
Inuktitut

Inuktitut is a language of the Arctic, spoken by Inuits in Canada and in Greenland. Inuktitut is a very complex language. It is an official language in Nunavut and the Northwest Territories.

The Inuit write Inuktitut in two ways. One way to write Inuktitut is by using the Roman alphabet. The other way to write Inuktitut is by using an abugida, which is a kind of alphabet which has letters based on syllables.

The uses a small part of the Unified Canadian Aboriginal Syllabics, a set of letters made up for writing down many of the languages of the First Nations people in Canada.

Some words in English come from Inuktitut or another Inuit language. Among them are the words anorak, igloo, and kayak.


</doc>
<doc id="18064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18064" title="Fall Out Boy">
Fall Out Boy

Fall Out Boy (often shortened to FOB) is an alternative rock band, that make music, from Chicago, Illinois, USA. The members are Pete Wentz (bassist), Patrick Stump (vocals), Andy Hurley (drums), and Joe Trohman (guitar). They have written successful songs, including "Thnks fr the Mmrs", "Sugar, We're Goin' Down" and "Dance, Dance". Their music is mostly like the pop-punk style, or genre, of music.

The band got the name "Fall Out Boy" from a character who appeared in one episode of The Simpsons.

"Sugar, We're Goin' Down" was the first single from their album "From Under the Cork Tree". It has peaked at number eight on the Billboard charts. The second single was "Dance, Dance" which picked up major airplay in the U.S. The third single was "A Little Less Sixteen Candles, a Little More Touch Me."

Their third album is "Infinity on High" and it had lots of success around the world. Two songs from the album were very popular across the world. They are "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" and "Thnks fr th Mmrs". The second song's title is "Thanks for the Memories" without the vowel letters, which is meant to look as if it were from a text message. The third single from "Infinity on High" is called "The Take Over, The Breaks Over". The fourth is "I'm Like a Lawyer With the Way I'm Always Trying to Get You Off (Me & You)". 

Their fourth and most recent album is "Folie à Deux", which was released on December 16, 2008. "I Don't Care" was the first song released from the album.

In late 2009 the band took a rest. Singer Patrick Stump went solo and will release his debut album "Soul Punk" on October 18, 2011. His EP "Truant Wave" was released on February 22, 2011. Bassist Pete Wentz formed the electro-pop band Black Cards. Guitarist Joe Trohman and Andy Hurley formed a rock band The Damned Things with people from Anthax and Every Time I Die.




</doc>
<doc id="18065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18065" title="Greek alphabet">
Greek alphabet

The modern Greek alphabet has 24 letters . It is used to write the Greek language.
The Greek alphabet is thought to be where all important European alphabets came from. Although the alphabet was borrowed from the Phoenicians around the 10th century BC, there were many changes made to make it fit the Greek language. The main change was that some of the Phoenician letters that were for sounds not used in Greek were turned into vowels. The Phoenicians had written their alphabet without any vowels, so this change made writing a lot easier to read. Another change is that some new letters were invented for sounds in Greek but not in Phoenician. At first, Greek was written from right to left, the same as Phoenician, but after the 6th century BC, it was written from left to right. 

There were some differences in the early Greek alphabet depending on what part of the Greek world it was used in. The two main kinds were the eastern and western ones. But over time all Greeks started to use the same alphabet, especially after the Ionic alphabet of Miletus was officially adopted in Athens in 403 BC. A little later, the rest of Greece did the same, and by 350 BC, almost all Greeks were using the same twenty-four letter Greek alphabet. Around this time, Aristophanes of Byzantium invented the three accent marks: acute, grave, and circumflex, to mark the tone or pitch of Greek words. 




</doc>
<doc id="18068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18068" title="Good Charlotte">
Good Charlotte

Good Charlotte is an American rock-punk music band. They are from Waldorf, Maryland, in the United States. They have many popular songs, including "The Anthem", "Girls And Boys", and "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous". 

Their third album is unique. "The Chronicles of Life and Death" came in two different versions: the Life version, and the Death version. The only difference between them is the last song on the CD. The Life version has "Falling Away", and the Death version has "Meet My Maker".

The lead singer of the band is Joel Madden. His twin brother, Benji, is also in the band. But besides them, there is Billy (guitarist), Paul (bassist) and Dean (Drums).



</doc>
<doc id="18069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18069" title="Battle Creek, Michigan">
Battle Creek, Michigan

Battle Creek is a city in western Michigan, USA. The headquarters of the Kellogg Cereal Company is located in this city.



</doc>
<doc id="18072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18072" title="Grand Rapids, Michigan">
Grand Rapids, Michigan

Grand Rapids is a large city in western Michigan, United States. Former American president Gerald Ford grew up in Grand Rapids. Grand Rapids is also the birthplace of Amway and the Meijer store chain.

Grand Rapids is the county seat of Kent County. It is the second largest city in the state, after Detroit. The third largest is Warren.

The city has many attractions, including the Frederik Meijer Gardens and Sculpture Park and John Ball Park, which is a zoo. Grand Valley State University has a campus in downtown Grand Rapids.



</doc>
<doc id="18073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18073" title="Evo Morales">
Evo Morales

Juan Evo Morales Aima (born October 26, 1959) is the President of Bolivia. He is an Aymara Native American, and is politically a leftist. He is the founder and leader of the Movement toward Socialism (or MAS) political party. "Movimiento al Socialismo" is its Spanish name. On January 22, 2006, he became President of Bolivia. His party has declared that he is the first indigenous person to be president of Bolivia. Not everyone believes this to be true because of his mestizo heritage and similar backgrounds of several past Bolivian presidents. Nonetheless, he is likely the first "culturally" indigenous president of Bolivia.


</doc>
<doc id="18075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18075" title="Template:List of people">
Template:List of people


</doc>
<doc id="18076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18076" title="Lake Titicaca">
Lake Titicaca

Lake Titicaca is located between Peru and Bolivia. It is the highest navigable lake in the world. It is the second largest in South America (after Maracaibo). It is at 3,809 meters above sea level. It covers an entire area of 8,300 square kilometers.


</doc>
<doc id="18078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18078" title="Howland Island">
Howland Island

Howland Island is a small island in the north Pacific Ocean, just north of the Equator. It is owned by the United States.

Howland island is a very hot and sunny island with wind blowing almost all the time. It only rains every once in a while.

Howland Island is located at 0 48 N, 176 38 W 


</doc>
<doc id="18088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18088" title="2005 Atlantic hurricane season">
2005 Atlantic hurricane season

The 2005 Atlantic hurricane season was the time from June 1 to November 30, 2005 when hurricanes officially formed in the Atlantic Ocean. Storms sometimes form before and after these dates but most storms form during the season. Tropical Storm Zeta Zeta began on December 30 and ended on January 6 which is after the November 30 end of the season. 

2005 broke many records set. There were 28 storms that were tropical storms and 15 that were hurricanes. For the first time ever storms were named by the Greek alphabet as the normal name list had been used up. The storm which caused the most damage was Hurricane Katrina, which hit New Orleans, USA, and killed over 1000 people. The strongest storm of the season was not Katrina, it was Hurricane Wilma. Wilma was the strongest hurricane ever in the Atlantic Ocean.

The storm formed near Honduras on June 8 and moved north. It came close to western Cuba on June 10 before entering the Gulf of Mexico. Arlene strengthened just below hurricane strength before making landfall on western Florida. The storm quickly weakened while moving inland, and later became an extratropical remnant on June 13.
Tropical Storm Bret was a weak tropical storm that formed as Tropical Depression Two in the western Gulf of Mexico, then quickly became Tropical Storm Bret. The storm made landfall in Tuxpan, Veracruz, Mexico the next morning. It dissipated on June 30. The storm cause 2 deaths and $9 million in damage.
Hurricane Cindy was a tropical cyclone that reached minimal hurricane strength for a very short time in the Gulf of Mexico during July and made landfall in Louisiana. It was the third named storm and first hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Cindy left 3 deaths and $320 million in damage.
Hurricane Dennis was the strongest hurricane before August. Hurricane Dennis moved mostly northwestward in its track. It made landfall in Grenada, and almost made landfall in Jamaica, and also made landfall in Cuba, and Florida (United States).
Hurricane Emily was the strongest and only known category 5 hurricane in July. It beat a record in strength set by Hurricane Dennis only 6 day before. Hurricane Emily was one of four category 5 hurricane in 2005. Hurricane Emily caused about 6 deaths and $988 million in damage.
Tropical Storm Franklin formed north of the Bahamas on July 21 and moved steadily across the western Atlantic while coming close to Bermuda on July 26. Later, Franklin became an extratropical cyclone near Newfoundland, before being absorbed by another non-tropical system. Franklin caused no damages and killed no people while it stayed in the ocean during most of its life.

Tropical Storm Gert was a weak and short lived storm. Tropical Storm Gert formed in the Bay of Campeche on July 23. The storm made landfall in Mexico and dissipated on July 25.
Tropical Storm Harvey was a strong tropical storm that moved across the Atlantic Ocean from August 2 to August 8. Harvey caused no damages or deaths and was the eighth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Tropical Storm Harvey only affected Bermuda.

Hurricane Irene was a rather long lived storm (about 2 weeks). It took it a while to become a hurricane. The only affect from Irene was large waves. Irene caused no damage or deaths.
Tropical Storm Jose was a strong but very short lived storm. It quickly formed in the Bay of Campeche and made landfall in Mexico. Tropical Storm Jose dissipated the next day. Tropical Storm Jose caused 8 deaths and $45 million in damages.
Hurricane Katrina was a powerful category 5 hurricane. Katrina was the costliest hurricane in U.S. history. Katrina devastated the U.S. Gulf Coast, it especially devastated New Orleans, a city in Louisiana. It beat the old record from Hurricane Andrew. Katrina left $81.2 billion in damage and 1,836 deaths.
Tropical Storm Lee formed east of the Lesser Antilles as a tropical depression on August 28. On the next day, the depression weakened into a tropical low. The low then moved north and became stronger. It became a tropical storm for a short time on August 31. Lee quickly weakened again into a remnant low and was absorbed by a cold front on September 2.

Hurricane Maria was a major hurricane in September 2005. This storm was rare because it affected New Jersey, Iceland, Scotland, and Norway. Hurricane Maria caused 3 deaths and $3.1 million in damage.
Nate was a category 1 hurricane. Hurricane Nate also helped Hurricane Maria kill one person in Bermuda, and another in New Jersey. 

Hurricane Ophelia was a category 1 hurricane in September of 2005. It moved strangely just offshore of the United States. In all, Ophelia killed 3 people and caused $70 million in damage, mostly to North Carolina.

Hurricane Philippe was a category 1 hurricane that moved near land, but did not affect land. This was the third of five uses of a "P" name. The other were Pablo, Peter, Paloma, and Paula
Hurricane Rita was a powerful category 5 hurricane that started east of the Bahamas on September 26. It moved south of Florida and into the Gulf of Mexico. Rita became a category 5 hurricane very fast, then made landfall. Hurricane Rita made landfall as a category 3 hurricane in Louisiana, on September 24. By September 26, Rita had died over the U.S. The hurricane killed about 120 people and caused $10 billion in damage. This was only the second time that an "R" name was used in the Atlantic, the other was Roxanne.
Hurricane Stan was the sixth of the seven storms in 2005 to make landfall in Mexico. The storm caused $1 billion in Mexico and the Central American region. The exact number of people killed is unknown, but the guess is around 1,660, though it could be up to 2,000. 
Tammy was a tropical storm that only existed for a total of two days and brought minor damages to the southeastern United States. It peaked with 50 mph (85 km/h) just before making landfall on the northern Florida coast. Tammy formed from a strong non-tropical low on October 5 just off the Floridan coast. It moved north, peaking with 50 mph (85 km/h) winds just before making landfall on Atlantic Beach, Florida on October 6. Tammy died shortly later. Most of the damages were losses from FEMA that totaled up to $30 million. Tammy also killed 10 people. This was only the second time that a name starting with the letter "T" in the Atlantic Ocean. The other use was from Hurricane Tanya in 1995.
Hurricane Vince was a very rare hurricane. Hurricane Vince formed in the Atlantic where the water was too cold for a storm to form. It was only a hurricane for about 6 hours. The storm did something else rare, the storm made landfall in Spain. This was the first time that a "V" name had been used in the Atlantic.
Hurricane Wilma was the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean. Hurricane Wilma lasted as a storm from mid to later October in 2005. Wilma left $28.8 billion in damage, mostly to Florida and the Yucatan Peninsula.
Tropical Storm Alpha was the first tropical storm to get a greek alphabet name. It caused 43 people to die over Haiti, Dominican Republic, and the Bahamas. All of this happened before Hurricane Wilma caused it to die on October 24. 
Hurricane Beta was a category 3 hurricane in late October, 2005. It strengthened fast and made landfall in Nicaragua, before it died on October 31. Beta caused about 4 deaths and $3 million in damage.
Gamma was a tropical storm that started in the middle of November. It crossed the Caribeann Sea and died during this time. Tropical Storm Gamma reformed north of Honduras, before it again died. The tropical storm killed about 41 people in Honduras. 
Tropical Storm Delta was a strong tropical storm. It killed at least 7 people in the Canary Islands and caused about $360 million in damage. The remains were last seen over Morocco.
Epsilon was a rare December hurricane, the first since Hurricane Lili in 1984. Forecasters incorrectly guessed on how much time it would take for Epsilon to die. Epsilon did not come any where near land.
Tropical Storm Zeta was the last storm of 2005. The storm formed on December 30 in cold waters of the Atlantic. Tropical Storm Zeta dissipated on January 6, 2006. It was only one of two storm to live in two different years (the other was Hurricane Alice which was in 1954 and 1955). The storm did not affect land or cause any deaths or damage.
There were also four storms in and around the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season that were not given any names: Tropical Depression Ten(10), Tropical Depression Nineteen(19), Subtropical Depression Twenty-two(22), and a subtropical storm that was not found until after it had happened. A subtropical cyclone is a storm that is not quite a tropical cyclone, but is more tropical than an extratropical cyclone.

In the spring of 2006, Hurricane Dennis, Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Rita, Hurricane Stan, and Hurricane Wilma were retired and replaced by Don, Karina, Rina, Sean and Whitney in 2011.


</doc>
<doc id="18089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18089" title="Christian calendar">
Christian calendar

A Christian calendar can be any calendar used by various Christian Churches for the Church year, called "liturgical year". For example, it can be used to find out what day Easter will be on, even though it is not the same in every Church. 

This should not be confused with the Gregorian calendar, a civil calendar that is used in many countries around the world.


</doc>
<doc id="18090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18090" title="Puberty">
Puberty

Puberty (, (British); [ˈpjubərdi], "-ber-di" (U.S.)) is what happens in children's bodies that changes them into adults. After puberty, people are able to make children. A young woman who has gone through puberty can become pregnant and have a baby. At puberty, a young man's body begins making sperm and he starts to be able to ejaculate, which is semen coming out from his penis when he is sexually excited. If he has sexual intercourse (sex) with a young woman, he can make her pregnant. Puberty is started by hormones, which are chemicals that tell parts of the body to do things. On average, girls start puberty between the ages of 7 and 15 years, and boys start between 9 and 16 years. However, people all over the world start puberty at different ages. Changes that happen to young men and women during puberty include the sex organs growing bigger, hair appearing on the body, and growing taller and stronger. People often notice young men's voices getting deeper, and young women growing breasts and starting to menstruate (have periods).

Because puberty is the time in a child's life when he or she becomes able to make children, this is seen as very important. Therefore, people in many countries around the world have different ways of marking this event.

Puberty is started and carried on by different hormones. Hormones are chemicals that tell parts of the body to do things. Hormones are made by glands in the body. Glands are organs (special parts) of the body that make hormones.

This is what happens during puberty:


Puberty in boys and girls starts when their bodies start making a lot of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Scientists do not know for sure what causes the body to do this. However, they have noticed that puberty begins when girls weigh about and boys weigh about . This suggests that the body is told to make a lot of GnRH by a hormone called leptin, which is made by fat tissue. People whose bodies have problems with leptin do not go through puberty.

On average, girls start puberty between the ages of 9 and 14 years, and boys start between 10 and 17 years. However, just because a person's puberty does not start during these ages does not mean they are not normal. People from all over the world start puberty at different ages. This is because of their environment (things around them), and maybe even events in their lives. Here are some of the things that make puberty happen at different ages in people:








Girls usually reach their adult height and become sexually mature (able to have babies) about four years after puberty starts. Boys grow for about six years after puberty starts. Puberty in boys starts off more slowly than in girls, but then speeds up later on. Although boys are usually about shorter than girls before puberty begins, adult men on average end up about taller than women.

For most boys, puberty takes about six years and ends when they are about 17 or 18 years old. At the end of puberty, a teenager is usually about 10 to 30 centimetres (cm) (4 to 12 inches (in)) taller, 7 to 29 kilograms (kg) (15 to 65 pounds (lb)) heavier, and stronger. He is also able to make a woman pregnant (have a baby).

The first sign of puberty in boys is that their testicles (also called the testes) and scrotum (the "bag" that the testicles are in) grow bigger. Before puberty, each testicle is about 1.5 to 2 cm (0.6 to 0.8 in) long and has a volume of about 2 to 3 cubic centimetres (cc) (0.1 to 0.2 cubic inches (cu in)). About six years after puberty starts, the testicles reach their adult size. The volume of an average adult man's testicle is about 18 to 20 cc (1.1 to 1.2 cu in). However, it is normal for some men to have testicles smaller than this size, and for other men to have larger testicles.

The penis also grows bigger during puberty. At the start of puberty, the average length of the penis is 6 cm (2.4 in). The penis reaches adult size about five years later. A study done in 1996 found the mean length of an adult man's penis is 3.5 in (8.9 cm) when it is flaccid (, ) (not erect or hard). The average length of an erect penis is about 12.9 to 15 cm (5.1 to 5.9 in).

The testicles have two main jobs: to make hormones and sperm. The testicles make the hormone testosterone, which spreads around the body. This causes the changes in the body that make a boy grow into a man. Testosterone also makes a man feel like having sex. One year after puberty begins, when boys urinate (pee) after waking up in the morning, some sperm can be found in the urine. When a boy is about 13 years old his testicles will have grown to the stage that he may be fertile (able to make a woman pregnant). However, it will be still be difficult for him to do so. Boys usually only become fully fertile when they reach about 14 to 16 years of age. The sperm in the testicles mixes with other liquids in the body to form a whitish or yellowish and sticky fluid called semen. During puberty, two glands in the body called the seminal vesicles and prostate also grow bigger. These glands make a lot of the liquid that is in semen.

When a man is sexually excited, he gets an erection – his penis becomes bigger, longer and harder. A male can become sexually excited if thinks about sex or sees a good-looking person, or if his penis rubs against something. During puberty, some boys also have spontaneous erections. These are erections that happen by themselves without any reason. This can be embarrassing when it happens in a public place.

When a man's penis is sexually stimulated for some time, he has an orgasm and semen shoots out from the penis. This is called ejaculation. Young boys cannot ejaculate. A boy's first ejaculation usually happens about one year after he begins puberty. For some boys, the first ejaculation takes place when they are sleeping. This is called a nocturnal emission or a wet dream. It happens without the boy's control, often when he is having a dream about sex. Scientists believe that wet dreams are the body's way of removing too much semen. A study done of 5,300 white men in the United States in 1948 found that 13% of them had their first ejaculation through a wet dream, This seems to tell us that most boys have their first ejaculation after masturbating. A male masturbates when he rubs his penis to make himself feel good sexually. The study also found that most boys who have their first ejaculation by masturbating do this a year or more earlier than boys who have their first ejaculation through a wet dream. A 2004 survey by a magazine in Canada found that most males (43%) started masturbating when they were about 12 to 13 years old. When a boy begins masturbating, wet dreams often stop happening because semen is taken out from his body regularly.

When a boy starts to ejaculate, he usually produces only a small amount of semen. The semen is different from what an adult man produces. It is usually clear and stays sticky. It either has no sperm in it, or sperm that do not move properly or do not move at all. A boy's semen only becomes like an adult man's semen about two years after his first ejaculation.

Not long after a boy's testicles and penis start to grow, pubic hair (, ) begins to appear. Pubic hair is hair that grows in the pubic region, which is the part of the body where the penis is. Pubic hair is shorter, curlier and rougher than hair on the head. It usually starts growing on the abdomen above the penis at the place where it joins the body. (The abdomen is the part of the torso where the navel or bellybutton is.) There may also be some hair on the scrotum. After about six months to a year, there will be a large triangle of hair in the pubic region. Within three to four years after puberty begins, there is a lot of pubic hair in the area above the penis. Later on, pubic hair also grows on the abdomen upwards towards the navel and on the insides of the thighs.

About two years after pubic hair starts to appear, hair also grows on other parts of the body:


The hair on the arms, legs, chest, abdomen and back may also become thicker. Different men have different amounts of body hair. Many boys begin shaving when hair starts growing on their faces.

A larger amount of male hormones in the body cause changes to perspiration (sweat). This gives it a more "adult" body odor or smell. The hormones also cause sebaceous glands in the skin to make more sebum, a type of oil that keeps the skin from getting too dry. Sebum and dead skin cells can mix with a type of germ called bacteria and block pores (tiny openings) in the skin. This causes a skin problem called acne. Most people get acne during puberty. When a person has acne, he gets swellings on his skin called blackheads, whiteheads and pimples. Blackheads and whiteheads are painless, but pimples can be red and painful. They usually form on the face but can also appear on the neck, shoulders, upper back and chest. Oil glands on scalp – the part of the head on which hair grows – also make a lot of sebum. This can cause dandruff, in which small white bits of skin fall from the scalp.

During puberty, a boy's larynx or voicebox also grows larger. This makes the laryngeal prominence or Adam's apple – the lump that sticks out of the front of his neck – larger too. As the larynx grows the vocal chords become longer and thicker, so they vibrate (move back and forth) more slowly. This causes the voice to lower in pitch or tone and become deeper. When this happens, it is sometimes said that the boy's voice has "broken". However, it actually does not happen overnight but over some time. During this time, the voice may sound scratchy. On average, a boy's voice normally reaches its adult sound when he is around 15 years old.

Towards the end of puberty, boys go through a "growth spurt" which lasts for about two to three years. During this time, their body grows taller very quickly. When the growth spurt is at its fastest point, some people grow or more a year. This happens about two years after puberty starts, usually between the ages of 13 and 15. When a boy reaches the end of his growth spurt when he is about 18 years old, he will be at his adult height. His body will not grow much taller after that. Because of their growth spurt, boys' muscles can feel sore. These "growing pains" can feel worse if boys are active and do a lot of exercise. They go away after a while. Boys grow more slowly than girls, but for a longer time. That is why most men are taller than women.

In the male body, some of the hormone testosterone is changed into another hormone called estradiol. Estradiol sometimes causes boys to grow small breasts. This is called gynecomastia. Scientists think that about half of all boys have gynecomastia in one or both sides of the chest. There can be some swelling and pain. The growth usually disappears by the end of puberty. However, if the breast growth is very obvious (which may happen if the person is overweight) and is causing him a lot of worry, it can be removed by surgery.

During the later part of puberty, boys also go through a "strength spurt" during which their muscles grow quickly. The strength spurt is fastest about a year after the fastest point of the growth spurt. By the end of puberty, adult males have heavier bones and more muscle than females. In an average adult man, muscle makes up 50% and fat 15% of his weight. On the other hand, 40% of an average adult woman's weight is made up of muscle while 27% is made up of fat. Because men have less body fat than women, their hips do not grow bigger. Some bones like those in the jaw and shoulders grow more in males than in females. That is why males have wider faces and shoulders but narrower hips.

The changes in a girl's body during puberty usually take place between the ages of eight and 18 years. Most girls will have finished puberty around the age of 15. They will have breasts and pubic hair, will menstruate (have a period) every month, and will be able to get pregnant. They will usually also have reached their full adult height.

When the breasts start to grow, this is normally the first sign of puberty that can be seen on the outside of a girl's body. This usually happens when girls are about the age of 10.5 years. A lump that is a bit hard appears in each breast under the areola, which is the dark ring around the nipple. The lump in one breast may grow before the other one. This is called breast budding. Within six to 12 months, both breasts will have started growing. The swelling can be felt and seen outside the edges of the areolae. About one and a half to two years after the breasts first start growing, they are close to the shape and size of an adult woman's breasts. The nipple and areola may be on a smaller mound on each breast. This small mound usually goes away when each breast is fully grown. Whether the breasts are small or large depends on how much fat there is in the body.

Between the ages of about eight and 14 (on average, at 11 or 12 years), pubic hair begins to grow along the labia (the "lips" of the vulva), usually a few months after the breasts start growing. At first the hair is thin and straight instead of curly, and there is not much of it. Within a year, the pubic hair becomes rough, dark and curly and grows in a triangle shape in the pubic region. About one year after pubic hair begins appearing, underarm hair also grows. The hair on the arms and legs also gets thicker, and some girls may have hair appearing on their upper lip and in front of their ears.

Like boys, higher amounts of hormones in the body cause girls' perspiration (sweat) to change. This gives them a more adult body odor or smell. The hormones also cause the skin to produce more sebum (oil), which usually leads to acne.

When girls are between eight and 11 years old, the two ovaries in their body begin to grow bigger. Each ovary is egg-shaped, and is attached to the side wall of the pelvis. The pelvis is a large set of bones in the hips. The ovaries are organs that make female hormones. These hormones cause a girl to grow into a woman, and make her feel like a woman. The hormones also make it possible for females to become pregnant and have babies. Inside the ovaries are about 200,000 ova (egg cells). For a baby to be formed, a woman's ovum and a man's sperm must come together. During puberty, the ova also grow bigger.

Between the ages of nine and 15 years (on average, at 12 to 13 years), the vagina and uterus (womb) become bigger. The uterus is the organ in which a baby grows. The vagina is a tube leading from the uterus to the outside of the body. The opening of the vagina is inside the vulva, in between the legs. A clear or whitish fluid may start to flow out of the vagina to keep it clean. Then, about two years after the breasts start to grow, when a girl is between ten and 16 years old (on average, at 13 to 14 years), hormones made by her ovaries cause the ovaries to release an ovum, which moves into the uterus. Usually, only one ovum is released at a time. The hormones also tell the uterus to get ready for a baby, in case the ovum meets a sperm and gets fertilized. The walls of the uterus become thicker with extra tissue. Inside the thick part of the uterus are blood vessels and other nutrients that a baby will need to grow. If an ovum in the uterus gets fertilized, it sticks to the wall of the uterus and starts to grow. However, if the ovum is not fertilized, it does not stick. The uterus then gets rid of the ovum and the extra tissue by releasing it from the body. The tissue and blood flows out of the uterus through the vagina. This is called menstruation or having a period. The bleeding normally lasts for about three to five days, though some girls may bleed for longer or have a bit of bleeding between periods. The uterus then starts preparing for another ovum. For most girls, the time between their periods is about one month. For about two years after menstruation starts, the time between periods is not always the same. Some girls may skip a month, or have two periods close to each other. It is also normal to have cramps (rather painful squeezing feelings) or to feel bloated (swollen up) in the abdomen during periods. When many girls start having periods, they begin using sanitary napkins (also called sanitary pads) or tampons to soak up the blood and tissue. A sanitary napkin is a piece of material that is absorbent (able to take in liquids) which is worn between the vulva and underpants. A tampon is a stick of absorbent material that is placed inside the vagina.

In 2004, a survey by a Canadian magazine found that most females (25%) started masturbating when they were about 12 to 13 years old.

Because of more hormones in the body, girls start to have more fat in their breasts, abdomen, hips and thighs. At the age of ten years, the average girl has 6% more body fat than the average boy, but by the end of puberty the difference is nearly 50%. The fat makes sure that a baby growing inside a pregnant woman will have enough nutrients. Also, the bones in the pelvis move further apart to make room for a larger uterus and ovaries, and so there is space for a baby to grow in the uterus and to pass out of the body when it is born. The extra fat and wider hip bones that girls have give them a curvier shape.

Girls also experience a growth spurt during puberty. In the first year after puberty begins, they grow about . They grow even faster the next year or so, then the growth slows down and almost stops when they start menstruating. After a girl's periods begin, she usually does not grow more than taller.

The large amounts of hormones in the bodies of boys and girls during puberty can also affect their emotions. Young people begin to be attracted by (drawn to) each other and thinking about what it is like to have sex. They are often worried about what other people think about them. They can also feel an urge to do things that are dangerous, such as taking drugs or too many alcoholic drinks, or smoking. They sometimes want more independence – more power to decide things for themselves – and can get angry when their parents do not allow them to do things. The brains of teenagers are still growing, and it may take a while before they are mature enough to know how to make good choices about their lives. Therefore, it may be helpful for them to follow the advice of adults they trust, even if it does not make much sense to them at the time.

Because puberty is the time in a child's life when he or she becomes able to make children, this is seen as very important. Therefore, people in many countries around the world have different ways of marking this event.











</doc>
<doc id="18091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18091" title="Stamford Bridge">
Stamford Bridge

Stamford Bridge could be



</doc>
<doc id="18094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18094" title="Bali tiger">
Bali tiger

The Bali tiger, or Balinese tiger ("Panthera tigris balica") is one of the three extinct sub-species of the tiger. They became extinct in 1937. They lived on Bali. This was the first sub-species of tiger to become extinct. It was also the smallest tiger sub-species. There is no record of a Balinese tiger ever being held in a zoo collection. The Balinese tiger's close sub-species were the Javan tiger and the Caspian tiger, which are now also extinct. The Balinese and Javan tigers were once the same, but during the Ice Age, Bali became isolated from Java by the Bali Strait. This split the tigers into two groups which then went onto develop alone. The killing of the very last wild Balinese tiger is usually thought to have been at Sumbar Kima, West Bali on 27 September, 1937. It was an adult tigress.


</doc>
<doc id="18095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18095" title="1507">
1507



</doc>
<doc id="18096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18096" title="479 BC">
479 BC

479 BC is a year in the 5th century BC.




</doc>
<doc id="18097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18097" title="192">
192



</doc>
<doc id="18098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18098" title="1758">
1758



</doc>
<doc id="18099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18099" title="1202">
1202

1202 is a year in the 13th century.






</doc>
<doc id="18101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18101" title="Category:Money">
Category:Money


</doc>
<doc id="18102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18102" title="Sitting Bull">
Sitting Bull

Sitting Bull (about 2010 - December 15, 1890), real name Tatanka Yotanka, was the chief of a Native American tribe called Hunkpapa-Lakota-Sioux. At the age of about 14, Slow participated in a war party against the Crow (warriors).
He was a very important chief and fought for the freedom for Native Americans. He fought with Crazy Horse and Big Foot at the Little Bighorn River against General George A. Custer and won.

He was shot and killed by Red Tomahawk, a police sergeant, during an attempt to arrest him. 


</doc>
<doc id="18103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103" title="1632">
1632





</doc>
<doc id="18106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18106" title="Michelle Kwan">
Michelle Kwan

Michelle Kwan (born July 7, 1980) is an American figure skater. She has won five world championships and nine U.S. championships.

Michelle Kwan was born on July 7, 1980, in Torrance, California. Kwan showed interest in figure stating when she followed Ron and Karen, her brother and sister, onto the ice, saying that all she could remember was "every day, tying up my skates and a big smile on my face, excited to go on the ice". She attended public school until eighth grade, when she began being homeschooled in 1994.

Kwan won the world junior championship in 1994. The same year, at the age of 13, she came in the top 10 in the world senior championship. She became world champion in 1996, when she was 15.




</doc>
<doc id="18107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18107" title="Frank Jack Fletcher">
Frank Jack Fletcher

Frank Jack Fletcher (29 April 1885 - 25 April 1973) was an Admiral in the United States Navy. He was born at Marshalltown, Iowa, of the same family line as Captain Frank "Pat" Fletcher and of Rear Admiral Frank Friday Fletcher, noted men in the Navy. He attended the Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland and had jobs on many warships. In 1914 he got the Medal of Honor at Vera Cruz. Then he was in control of a destroyer in World War I received the Navy Cross. Later he took Naval and Army War College training, became chief of staff Asiatic Fleet, aide to Secretary of the Navy Swanson, and Commanding Officer of battleship "New Mexico." He became Rear Admiral in control of Cruiser Division 3 in 1939. He was Commander of Cruisers, Pacific Fleet at the time
of Pearl Harbor. In the very bad, first six months of the war, he was Task Force Commander at the Battle of Coral Sea, the Battle of Midway, and the Battle of Eastern Solomons. Vice Admiral Fletcher then became Commander North Pacific Forces where he took the surrender of the Imperial Northern Fleet. After the war he became Chairman of the Navy General Board till he retired. Admiral Fletcher rests at Arlington National Cemetery.

"Frank Jack Fletcher, was the best fighting commander in the U.S. Navy in the twentieth century. He came out best in all three aircraft carrier battles in which he fought -- there were only five such fights in of all history. Admiral Fletcher was outnumbered at all times and when the other side was at its highest point in the early years of the Pacific War. He did not let the other side take Australia, Midway, and Guadalcanal. He put down six of the ten Japanese carriers with four of the six great carriers that had attacked Pearl Harbor. His acts were completely his own, because there was no such thing as carrier fighting experience before him to learn to fight ships from the air. He kept the Pacific safe which let much support to go to Europe and started the Allied victory in World War II."


</doc>
<doc id="18108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18108" title="Irina Slutskaya">
Irina Slutskaya

Irina Slutskaya (ru: Ирина Слуцкая) (born February 9, 1979 in Moscow), is a Russian figure skater. She has won two world championships and six European championships.

Irina began skating when she was four years old. She has had the same coach, Zhanna Gromova, since she was six years old. By 1996, she was European champion and came third in the world championships (at age 17). She went to school at the Moscow Academy of Physical Culture, graduating in the year 2000.




</doc>
<doc id="18109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18109" title="Lu Chen">
Lu Chen

Lu Chen (Simplified Chinese: 陈露, Traditional Chinese: 陳露, Chen Lu in Chinese) (born November 24, 1976, in Changchun) is a Chinese figure skater. She was world champion in 1995.

Chen's mother played table tennis and her father coached ice hockey. She started skating at the age of five in Jilin, and also took ballet dancing. She won the bronze medal at the world junior championship in 1992, and came third at the world senior championships the same year, at the age of 16.

Her nickname is "Lulu," and she is also known as "Butterfly on Ice." She is admired for her artistic ability.

Chen skated for the professional show "Stars on Ice" for two years. Now she runs an ice skating club in Shenzhen. This club is named after her.




</doc>
<doc id="18111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18111" title="Oksana Baiul">
Oksana Baiul

Oksana Baiul (born November 16, 1977 in Dnipropetrovs'k) is a Ukrainian figure skater. She came first at the 1993 world championships and at the 1994 winter olympics.

Baiul's grandfather gave her first skates to her when she was three years old. When her mother died, she became an orphan (had no parents). But she kept skating, and won the world championships when she was only 15 years old. She became famous for her artistic ability when she skated as "the swan" to win the Olympics when she was 16. 

She has skated for many professional shows such as "Champions on Ice" and "Stars on Ice". A T.V. movie was made about her - "A Promise Kept: The Oksana Baiul Story". She now lives in New Jersey. She still skates professionally, and also makes figure skating clothes.




</doc>
<doc id="18113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18113" title="Hobo">
Hobo

Hobo is a word for a homeless person who travels to different cities and towns to look for work. Hobos usually travel by train "hopping" (riding in empty train freight railcars without paying for a ticket), or sometimes "riding the rods" (lying dangerously near the train wheels, underneath the cars).

Hobos stay in very cheap hotels in cities, or camp in simple shelters ("") in shanty towns near the rail yards. There were many hobos during the Great Depression in the United States because many people lost their jobs and homes. Many people blamed President Herbert Hoover for the Depression, so hobo camps were sometimes called "Hoovervilles".


</doc>
<doc id="18118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18118" title="Wicca">
Wicca

Wicca, or the Craft, is a Neo-pagan (meaning "new pagan") religion that was made popular by a British man named Gerald Gardner in the 1940s. Gardner called Wicca the "witch cult" and "witchcraft" and its followers the "Wica". The word "Wicca" means "Witch" in Old English. People who follow Wicca are called "Wiccans."

There are many different traditions of Wicca, and different traditions practice differently. However, there are common beliefs that are shared by all Wiccans, such as God and Goddess, the afterlife, magic and morality.

Wiccans believe in a God and Goddess. The God and Goddess are equal in Wicca, although sometimes the Goddess is seen as more important than the God. The God and Goddess can be split into different Gods and Goddesses. Goddess can be split into other Goddesses such as Athena (a Greek Goddess), Brigid (an Irish Goddess), and Isis (an Egyptian Goddess). God can be split into other Gods such as Cernunnos (a Celtic God), Ra (an Egyptian God), and Thor (a Norse God). Some people explain this as a "ball" theory - the ball is whole and intact, but each part of the ball is individual in its own way.
There are some Wiccans, like Dianic Wiccans, who mostly worship the Goddess only. Dianic Covens (a group of witches) are normally comprised entirely of women. 

Many Wiccans perform magic. Wiccans ask the God and Goddess to help change their lives, or the lives of other people, through prayer, ritual and magic. Wiccans say affirmations and poems out loud to help with their magic, or might burn a candle or some incense. Magic is not only practiced in Wicca - anyone can practice magic, sometimes termed as witchcraft, but one must accept the after effects of the magic performed - whether good or bad.

Many Wiccans have special places at home where they perform ritual and magic and worship. These places are called "altars." Wiccans put holy and special objects on their altars, such as the following items: 





Some Wiccans also put other objects on their altars, such as statues of personal Gods or Goddesses, a bell, some candles, incense, and a broom (called a besom), which is used to "sweep" away evil or negative energy or spirits.

The most important Wiccan teaching is called the "Wiccan Rede". The word Rede means ""advice"" or ""council"" in Old German. ""An harm ye none, do what ye will"" is the very basic Wiccan Rede, which means, ""Do what you want to do, but do not harm anything in the process"." This means you must think about how your actions will affect yourself, other people, and the world. Wiccans believe that their actions have effects that come back three times as powerful. This is called the "Rule of Threefold Return" or "Rule of Three". This rule has different meanings depending on who you ask: 


Wiccans have eight Sabbats, or 'Holy Days', which are:

In Wicca, a private book containing spells, rituals, potions, and occult knowledge, called a "Book of Shadows", is kept. In some types of Wicca, such as Gardnerian Wiccan, the contents of the Book are kept secret from anyone but other members of the group, or . However, some versions of the Book have been published. Some parts of these published versions, such as the "Wiccan Rede" and the "Charge of the Goddess" have been used by non-Wiccans or Wiccans. Many eclectics create their own personal books, and keep them to themselves.



</doc>
<doc id="18120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18120" title="Indo-Chinese tiger">
Indo-Chinese tiger

The Indo-Chinese tiger ("Panthera tigris corbetti") was after the Bengal tiger the subspecies of the Tiger with the most animals , between 1200 and 1800. They are 280 cm in length and 180 kilo in weight. In 2005 is a new subspecies of the tiger discovered, the Malayan tiger. First they thought that they where Indo-Chinese tigers but now it has a own subspecies. Now there are between 500 - 700 animals left, the other animals are Malayan tigers.


</doc>
<doc id="18121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18121" title="Office">
Office

An office is a room where people work. Usually works like writing, reading and bookkeeping are done there. There are offices for only one or two people but there are also large offices where many people work, for example, call-centers .


</doc>
<doc id="18125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18125" title="Phenomenon">
Phenomenon

A phenomenon (Greek: ", pl. ") is an observable event or, quite literally, something that can be seen.

It comes from the noun ("phainomenon, df. appearance") and is also related to the verb ("phainein, df. to show"). Its plural is phenomena. Its antonym is "lathomenon", meaning "something lying beneath the surface". 

In general, apart from its original use as a term in philosophy, "phenomenon" stands for any observable event. Some events are easy to observe, others need scientific experiments that make observation possible. 
Phenomenon can also mean a "surprising development" or "unusually successful person".


</doc>
<doc id="18126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18126" title="Konstantin Chernenko">
Konstantin Chernenko

Konstantin Ustinovich Chernenko (Russian language: Константи́н Усти́нович Черне́нко September 24, 1911 – March 10, 1985) was the leader of the Soviet Union for a very short time. He became the leader in 1984, and ruled for 13 months until his death in 1985.


</doc>
<doc id="18127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18127" title="Shetland Sheepdog">
Shetland Sheepdog

A Shetland Sheepdog is a kind of small dog whose ancestors came from the Shetland Islands. Many people call them "Shelties". They are popular pets in many countries. Shelties are a working dog and are sometimes used for herding. A Sheltie can have a mix of several colors in its coat. Most shelties are sable and white (brown and white) or tri-color (black, white and tan). Their fur is long and they shed twice a year. Shelties range in size from 13 to 16 inches. They usually weight about 25-30 pounds. Shelties are very energetic dogs that run and bark a lot. They are great with children. Shelties try to please their master so they don't need very much discipline. Shelties rank in the top ten smartest dogs. They learn new things very quickly and remember them well. Shelties make great family pets as long as you do not mind a dog that barks.


</doc>
<doc id="18135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18135" title="Belief">
Belief

A belief is a firm thought that something is true, often when there are not sufficient facts to make the judgement. Belief is usually a part of belonging to a religion. It is different to knowledge. Knowledge is a thought or idea that can be tested, but belief is not able to be tested. For example, a person may believe in a God or Gods.
The word is also used to describe what a person expects will happen based on limited information. For example "I believe Amy will come around today".Belief is also something you believe in but you cannot prove exactly.


</doc>
<doc id="18136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18136" title="Alsatian">
Alsatian

An Alsatian is a breed of dog. It first developed in Germany in an area called Alsace. They can also be called German shepherds (). They are often used as police dogs, though they have many other uses. They have been used as herding dogs, guard dogs and as pets, to name a few. 

An important modern use is the dog's ability to perform search and rescue. The American Rescue Dog Association only uses air-scenting Alsatians to locate missing persons in wilderness, disaster, human remains and water search and rescue/recovery missions. The breed is naturally athletic, tolerates a wide variety of climate conditions, consistently ranks in the top 5 smartest breeds, and works well among the confusion of other dogs and their handler of Silent films.

Alsatians are one of the biggest dogs in the whole world. 

The term Alsatian instead of German Shepherd was first popularly used by the British in the First World War because the country was at war with Germany.

Adolf Hitler, a German dictator, was also known to have German Shepherds as pets.


</doc>
<doc id="18138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18138" title="Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back">
Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back

Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back was the second "Star Wars" movie made. The movie was released in 1980 and is a mix of science fiction, fantasy, action, and drama. 


The Rebels hide from the Empire on the icy planet Hoth. The Empire finds the Rebels and they have to leave the planet after a battle.
Luke Skywalker finds Yoda, a 900-year-old Jedi Master and begins the training to become a Jedi. Han Solo, Chewbacca, Princess Leia and C-3P0 are caught by the Empire and Solo is frozen in carbonite. In his Jedi training, Luke gets a vision that his friends are in danger and tries to help them. He has to confront Darth Vader, and the two of them fight. When Luke fights Vader, he cuts off Luke's hand and Luke also learns that Vader is his father. His hand is replaced with a prosthetic one, including nerves, muscles, and many more.



</doc>
<doc id="18139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18139" title="Church of the SubGenius">
Church of the SubGenius

The Church of the SubGenius is a religion founded by the J.R. "Bob" Dobbs. Originally based in Dallas, Texas, now based in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. The Church of the Subgenius has a large following of Yetisyny and Bobbies.
It was founded by J R "Bob" Dobbs, the self anointed "Saint of Sales". In 1953 "Bob" was fixing his TV which he made, and JHVH-1 Space God put knowledge of Slack and other stuff into "Bob"'s head so he could save the Abnormals, known in the church as "SubGenii" or "Yetinsyny", from being hurt on X-day (July 5, 1998), by making the X-ists let us go on their pleasure saucers while they destroy the world.



</doc>
<doc id="18142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18142" title="Category:1885 births">
Category:1885 births


</doc>
<doc id="18145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18145" title="Category:1632">
Category:1632


</doc>
<doc id="18150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18150" title="Category:1101">
Category:1101


</doc>
<doc id="18151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18151" title="Category:1290">
Category:1290


</doc>
<doc id="18152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18152" title="Category:1290s">
Category:1290s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1290s which begins in the year 1290 and ends in the year 1299.


</doc>
<doc id="18153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18153" title="Category:1310s">
Category:1310s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1310s which begins in the year 1310 and ends in the year 1319.


</doc>
<doc id="18154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18154" title="Category:1326">
Category:1326


</doc>
<doc id="18155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18155" title="Category:1409">
Category:1409


</doc>
<doc id="18156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18156" title="Category:1455">
Category:1455

[[en:Category:1455]
[[Category:1450s]]

[[ar:تصنيف:1455]]
[[an:Categoría:1455]]
[[az:Kateqoriya:1455]]
[[bn:বিষয়শ্রেণী:১৪৫৫]]
[[be:Катэгорыя:1455]]
[[be-x-old:Катэгорыя:1455]]
[[bs:Kategorija:1455]]
[[br:Rummad:1455]]
[[cs:Kategorie:1455]]
[[cy:Categori:1455]]
[[da:Kategori:1455]]
[[de:Kategorie:1455]]
[[et:Kategooria:1455]]
[[en:Category:1455]]
[[es:Categoría:1455]]
[[eo:Kategorio:1455]]
[[eu:Kategoria:1455]]
[[fa:رده:۱۴۵۵ (میلادی)]]
[[fr:Catégorie:1455]]
[[gan:Category:1455年]]
[[ko:분류:1455년]]
[[hy:Կատեգորիա:1455]]
[[bpy:থাক:মারি ১৪৫৫]]
[[id:Kategori:1455]]
[[os:Категори:1455]]
[[is:Flokkur:1455]]
[[it:Categoria:Eventi del 1455]]
[[jv:Kategori:1455]]
[[ka:კატეგორია:1455]]
[[kk:Санат:1455 жыл]]
[[sw:Jamii:1455]]
[[la:Categoria:1455]]
[[lv:Kategorija:1455. gads]]
[[mk:Категорија:1455]]
[[ms:Kategori:1455]]
[[new:पुचः:१४५५]]
[[ja:Category:1455年]]
[[no:Kategori:1455]]
[[nn:Kategori:1455]]
[[oc:Categoria:1455]]
[[uz:Turkum:1455]]
[[pt:Categoria:1455]]
[[ro:Categorie:1455]]
[[qu:Katiguriya:1455]]
[[ru:Категория:1455 год]]
[[sah:Категория:1455]]
[[sk:Kategória:1455]]
[[sl:Kategorija:Leto 1455]]
[[sh:Kategorija:1455]]
[[sv:Kategori:1455]]
[[tt:Төркем:1455 ел]]
[[th:หมวดหมู่:พ.ศ. 1998]]
[[tr:Kategori:1455]]
[[uk:Категорія:1455]]
[[vi:Thể loại:1455]]
[[war:Category:1455]]
[[zh-yue:Category:1455年]]
[[zh:Category:1455年]]

</doc>
<doc id="18158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18158" title="Category:1461">
Category:1461


</doc>
<doc id="18159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18159" title="Category:1467">
Category:1467


</doc>
<doc id="18160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18160" title="Category:1505">
Category:1505


</doc>
<doc id="18161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18161" title="Category:1528">
Category:1528


</doc>
<doc id="18162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18162" title="Category:1556">
Category:1556


</doc>
<doc id="18164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18164" title="Category:1625">
Category:1625


</doc>
<doc id="18165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18165" title="Category:1623">
Category:1623


</doc>
<doc id="18168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18168" title="Template:Vertebrates">
Template:Vertebrates


</doc>
<doc id="18173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18173" title="Terry Bradshaw">
Terry Bradshaw

Terry Bradshaw is a former American athlete. He is also a sports presenter. He was born September 2, 1948 in Shreveport, Louisiana. Bradshaw is a former quarterback with the Pittsburgh Steelers in the National Football League, and a television and American football host. Over six years, he won four Super Bowl titles with Pittsburgh (1975, 1976, 1979 and 1980). He went into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1989.


</doc>
<doc id="18176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18176" title="Squid">
Squid

The squid is an invertebrate animal that lives in the ocean. They are cephalopod molluscs, like octopus are. Squid are hunted by some whales, most notably the Orca (Killer Whale). Squid, like cuttlefish, have eight arms arranged in pairs, and two longer tentacles.

Sqids are classified in the order Teuthida. There are about 300 species. 

All squid have tentacles with suckers, a mouth with a radula, and jet propulsion with the siphon from the mantle. The radulla is a scraping organ in the mouth that scrapes nutrients from food sources. 

Tentacles are used for locomotive power and capturing food sources. All squids are carnivores; they eat other animals, not plants. 

Like other cephalopoda, squid are intelligent animals. Squids have a head-like structure, with sense organs and brains in the front end. Although the squids lack exterior shells they have a vestigial shell inside, made of chitin.

The skin is covered in chromatophores, which enable the squid to change colour to suit its surroundings, making it effectively camouflaged. Controlled by the nervous system, the camouflage can change in 'real time'. 

After a male and female mate, the female squid lays eggs. The eggs are laid inside an egg case. Since the squid is usually a part of a shoal, it is laid with many other egg cases from many other squids, and then anchored to the sea floor. Because of this, squid eggs are often (many times) found in clumps, and those clumps often look like a flower.

Often, the male will die a short time after mating, and the female will die once she has released her eggs. Because of this, squids usually lay eggs only once. Squids do not live very long. Although there are some long-lived species, most squids live for only one or two years.

The majority are no more than long, although the giant squid may reach .

In 1978, sharp, curved claws on the suction cups of squid tentacles cut up the rubber coating on the hull of the USS "Stein". The size suggested the largest squid known at the time.

In 2003, a large specimen of an abundant but poorly understood species, "Mesonychoteuthis hamiltoni" (the Colossal Squid), was discovered. This species may grow to in length, making it the largest invertebrate. Squid have the largest eyes in the animal kingdom. Giant squid are featured in literature and folklore with a frightening connotation. The Kraken is a legendary tentacled monster possibly based on sightings of real giant squid.

In February 2007, a New Zealand fishing vessel caught a Colossal Squid weighing and measuring around off the coast of Antarctica. This specimen represents the largest cephalopod to ever be scientifically documented.


</doc>
<doc id="18177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18177" title="Giant squid">
Giant squid

The giant squid "Architeuthis" is a genus of deep-ocean dwelling squid. Giant squid can grow to a tremendous size: recent estimates put the maximum size at 13 metres (43 ft) for females and 10 metres (33 ft) for males from caudal fin to the tip of the two long tentacles 

There is a larger squid, known as the Colossal Squid. 

Until 2005, nobody had ever seen a giant squid that was alive. Only dead giant squids had been found. On 30 September 2004, researchers from Japan took the first images of a live giant squid in its natural habitat. Several of the 556 photographs were released a year later. The same team successfully filmed a live adult giant squid for the first time on December 4, 2006.

There is no agreement as to how many species there are.

For many years, people would hear stories from fishermen about giant squids at sea. According to the stories, an enormous squid would wrap its arms around a whale, causing a terrible fight to start. Whalers said that sometimes, when they caught a whale, it would have scars as big as dinner plates on its body. Other times, when they cut open the stomach of some of their whales, they would find squid arms as long as 30 ft with suckers up to four inches wide. The whalers who told these stories either chopped up the squid parts to eat or use as bait, or they threw them back out to sea before scientists were ever able to examine them. However, in 1861, a French ship was able to bring back parts of a giant squid so scientists could study them. 

Then, in the late 18th century, several giant squids washed up on shore, proving that giant squids really exist. After that, many giant squids were found washed ashore or dead at sea. Scientists grew very interested in these mysterious creatures, but few ever saw them alive. Scientists think they spend most of their time in deep, cold ocean.

In December 2005, the Melbourne Aquarium in Australia got the intact body of a giant squid, preserved in a giant block of ice. It had been caught by fishermen off the coast of New Zealand's South Island that year.

The number of known giant squid specimens was close to 600 in 2004, and new ones are reported each year.


</doc>
<doc id="18178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18178" title="Googol">
Googol

The word googol was first used by Milton Sirotta, nephew of U.S. mathematician Edward Kasner. Sirotta made this word in 1938, for the number represented by the numeral 1 followed by 100 zeros. It is said that the word "googol" was chosen to represent this number because it sounded like baby talk.

A googol is 10 

Google was named after the word "googol".


</doc>
<doc id="18180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18180" title="National Football League">
National Football League

The National Football League (also called the NFL) is an American football league. There are 32 teams in the league. The league is a professional league, which means that the players are paid to play and that it is their job. A league is a competition between a number of teams. The teams play other teams, and the results are used to list the teams in order of who is best. The team at the top of the list (called a league table) is the best team and the team at the bottom is the worst team. 

In 1920, an American football league was formed. It was called the American Professional Football Association. In 1921 it changed its name to the National Football League. In 1960 another league was formed, called the American Football League. In 1970 the National Football League and the American Football League joined together so that the teams from each league could play each other. The league called the National Football League changed its name to the National Football Conference (usually called the NFC) and the league called the American Football League changed its name to the American Football Conference (usually called the AFC). The two conferences together are now called the National Football League. People can also call it by the acronym NFL for short.

Because the U.S. is a big country and it would be hard for teams to travel a long way to play other teams, the teams are separated into smaller regional divisions based on where they are in the country. The teams are separated like this:

<br clear="all">

The teams in the NFL play games against each other from September to January. This time is called a season. Each team plays 16 games. This is how which games a team will play is chosen:

Since the 2006 season, the NFL has used a "flexible-scheduling" system for the last seven weeks of the regular season where there is a Sunday night game. The system is designed so that the league has the flexibility in selecting games to air on Sunday night that will feature the current hottest, streaking teams.

Under the system, all Sunday games in the affected weeks will tentatively have the "early" start time of 1 p.m. ET/10 a.m. PT, except those played in the Pacific or Mountain time zones, which will have the tentative start time of 4 p.m. ET/1 p.m. PT. On the Tuesday 12 days before the games, the league will move one game to the prime-time slot, and possibly move one or more 1 p.m. slotted games to the 4 p.m. slot. During the last week of the season, the league could re-schedule games as late as six days before the contests so that as many of the television networks as possible will be able to broadcast a game that has playoff implications.

At the end of every NFL season, the eight teams that finish the season at the top of their leagues and two teams from each conference that were the best teams apart from the eight league winners (these four teams are called Wild Cards) enter a competition to see who is the best team in the whole league. This is called the Playoffs. There are a total of 12 teams in the Playoffs, six from the NFC and six from the AFC. The six teams in each conference are listed in order of how well they played in the season. This is called seeding and it is done to make it easier for the better teams to win. The teams that did not win their leagues (the Wild Cards) are always the fifth and sixth seeds in the list, even if they were better than a team that won a different league.

In the first part of the playoffs (called Wild Card Weekend) there are four games.

The teams that lose these games are not in the playoffs competition any more. Now there are only 8 teams left.

In the second part of the playoffs (called the Divisional Playoffs) there are four games.

The teams that lose these games are not in the playoffs competition any more. Now there are only 4 teams left.

In the third part of the playoffs (called the Conference Championship Games) there are two games.

The last part of the playoffs is called the Super Bowl. The AFC Champion and the NFC Champion teams play each other to decide who is the best team in the NFL.



</doc>
<doc id="18181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18181" title="Super Bowl">
Super Bowl

The Super Bowl is a special American football game played every year at the end of the National Football League (NFL) season. The best team from each of the two NFL conferences play for the Vince Lombardi Trophy, which was named after the first coach to win a Super Bowl. For most football fans, it is a very special event. Some people who do not like football still watch it for the commercials and the half-time show. The Pittsburgh Steelers are the team with the most Super Bowl Wins with six. The San Francisco 49ers and Dallas Cowboys currently are tied for the second-most Super Bowl wins with 5. The Cleveland Browns, Detroit Lions, Houston Texans, and the Jacksonville Jaguars have never played in a Super Bowl. The Kansas City Chiefs and New York Jets have not played in the Super Bowl since the American Football League (AFL) and the NFL joined together in 1970.

Notes:


</doc>
<doc id="18187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18187" title="We Will Rock You">
We Will Rock You

"We Will Rock You" is a song by Queen. It is one of their most famous, used at a lot of sport events. The main song has the band stamping their feet twice, and clapping once. At the end, a short guitar part is played.


</doc>
<doc id="18190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18190" title="Lagos">
Lagos

Lagos is the largest city in Nigeria and in West Africa, with more than 10 million inhabitants. There are about 12.5 million to 18 million people living in Lagos which makes it one of the biggest cities in Africa. This includes the greater Lagos area and other smaller cities like Surulere, Agege, Ikeja, Ikorodu, Ajegunle, Oshodi, Maryland.

Lagos was the capital of Nigeria until 1992, when the capital was moved to Abuja. Lagos still acts as the commercial capital of Nigeria and a gateway to West Africa.


</doc>
<doc id="18194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18194" title="Infinitive">
Infinitive

The infinitive is a verb form. It has no person, number, mood, or tense.

In English, there are two main forms of the infinitive:


After a modal verb you must use an infinitive. For example, "I must go", "he must go" ("he must goes" is not correct)

To express time relationships, here are 6 types of infinitives:




</doc>
<doc id="18195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18195" title="Cartridge">
Cartridge

Cartridge can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="18196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18196" title="Real number">
Real number

A real number is a rational or irrational number. Usually when people say "number" they usually mean "real number". The official symbol for real numbers is a bold R or a blackboard bold formula_1.

Some real numbers are positive. A positive number is bigger than zero. If a positive number is added to another positive number, that number gets bigger. Zero is also a real number. If zero is added to a number, that number does not change.

There are also negative real numbers. If a negative number is added to another number, that number gets smaller.

The real numbers are infinite. There is no smallest or biggest real number. No matter how many real numbers are counted, the last one will never be reached.

The real numbers are dense. That means that if two different real numbers are taken, there will always be another one in between them, no matter how close together the two numbers are.

The real numbers are uncountable. That means that there is no way to put all the real numbers into a sequence. Any sequence of real numbers will miss out a real number, even if the sequence is infinite.
This makes the real numbers special. There are more real numbers than there are integers, even though the integers are infinite, too, because the integers are countable.

There are number systems other than the real numbers, such as the complex numbers. Every real number is a complex number, but not every complex number is a real number.

There are different types of real numbers. Depending on the application, only a subset may be needed. Sometimes all the real numbers are not talked about at once. Sometimes only special, smaller sets of them are talked about. These sets have special names. They are:

The number 0 ("zero") is special. Sometimes it is taken as part of the subset to be considered, and at other times it is not. It is the Identity element for addition and subtraction. That means that adding or subtracting zero does not change the original number. For multiplication and division, the identity element is 1.
One real number that is not rational is formula_2. This number is irrational. If a square is drawn with sides that are one unit long, the length of the line between its opposite corners will be formula_2.

The number formula_2 is not rational. Here is the proof.


It is not true that formula_2 is a rational number. So formula_2 is irrational.


</doc>
<doc id="18198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18198" title="Elvis Stojko">
Elvis Stojko

Elvis Stojko (born March 22, 1972 in Newmarket, Ontario ) is a Canadian figure skater. He was world champion three times, and Canadian champion seven times.

Stojko was named after Elvis Presley, and sometimes skates to Presley's music. He grew up in Richmond Hill, Ontario. He started skating when he was four years old. He also became a black belt in karate (which has influenced some of his skating). Stojko was the first person to do a quadruple-triple jump combination. He became known for his athletic ability.

Today he is a professional skater, and also competes in karate.




</doc>
<doc id="18202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18202" title="Album">
Album

An album is a collection of sound recordings. It is usually made by a musician, and is sold in stores to people. Albums today mainly come in the form of compact discs, although many artists also release their albums on vinyl records.

There are two main types of albums, studio albums and live albums. Studio albums are recorded at a recording studio. Live albums are normally recorded while the musicians are performing for an audience. Live albums are usually recorded at concerts. 

Other types of albums include:

Albums are normally separated into "Tracks". Each track is a part of the album which has one song in it. The term is often used to mean a specific song on the album by number. For example, the "fourth track" or "track four" from an album is the fourth song on the album when it is played from the beginning.



</doc>
<doc id="18204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18204" title="Nobel Prize in Chemistry">
Nobel Prize in Chemistry

The Nobel Prize in Chemistry is awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. It awards people who have made progress in the scientific area of chemistry, those who have worked hard to learn more and have succeeded.

The Prize is given every year. It is just one of many Nobel Prizes. A famous winner of this prize was Marie Curie 1911, who discovered radium with her husband Pierre. She was the first person to win the prize twice; the first time was for physics in 1903.










</doc>
<doc id="18205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18205" title="Baker Island">
Baker Island

Baker Island is a small coral island, or atoll, in the North Pacific Ocean. It is just above of the equator. It belongs of the United States. The United States Department of the Interior is in charge of the island, which is currently called the "Baker Island National Wildlife Refuge". 

The island has no trees. The island is surrounded by a coral reef, which makes the atoll hard to approach in a boat.


</doc>
<doc id="18206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18206" title="Hermaphrodite">
Hermaphrodite

In zoology, an animal which can produce both sperm and ova at the same time is called a hermaphrodite. As an example, most earthworms are hermaphrodites.

In plants, hermaphrodite is used for 'complete' flowers with both male and female parts, and for plants which bear only bisexual reproductive units. See Flowering plant sexuality for details.

Hermaphrodites are people who have both male and female sex parts. Another word for this is intersex. "Inter" means between, and "sex" refers to what sex parts a person has, so "intersex" means between male and female.

People who are intersex can look a lot of different ways. They may have a very small penis and no testicles, or a very small and short vagina and a large clitoris that looks like a penis. Sometimes when these people are born, it is hard for the doctor to tell by looking if the baby is a boy or a girl.

If a baby is born intersex, the parents can decide to have the baby get surgery, to make them look more like a boy or more like a girl. Some people think this is not a good idea, because the surgery can make it hard for the person to enjoy sexual intercourse when they are older. But others say that the baby's life will be too hard if they do not get surgery, because it will be different and other people might be mean to them.


</doc>
<doc id="18207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18207" title="Epididymis">
Epididymis

The epididymis is the part of the human male reproductive system. It is the tube that holds the testicles in place. It stretches from the back of each testicle to the van deferens.

The dinges is made up of three parts:

Sperm made in the testis go into the head ("caput") of the epididymis, go through the body ("corpus") and stop at the tail ("cauda"), where they are stored. When sperm are first made and travel to the head, they are not yet ready to be ejaculated. They cannot swim or fertilize an egg. By the time they reach the tail, the sperm can fertilize an egg. The sperm are transferred to the Seminal visicle through the vas deferens. The sperm can not swim yet, so muscle contractions push the sperm to the seminal vesicle where final development is finished. . 

When the sperm are ejaculated, they move through the tail of the epididymis. There are so many sperm that they cannot swim, but use peristalsis from muscles in the vas deferens.

An injury or infection of the epididymis causes epididymitis, a painful condition that can take months to heal. Sometimes the testicle has to be removed. There does not seem to be any single cause, or treatment for this condition. Some doctors treat it with antibiotics, some take a "wait and see" attitude. At times just one testicle is affected and at others, both.


</doc>
<doc id="18208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18208" title="1810s">
1810s






</doc>
<doc id="18209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18209" title="Mammary gland">
Mammary gland

Mammary glands are the part of the female body designed for the making milk for baby mammals to drink. In humans they are in the breasts.


</doc>
<doc id="18214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18214" title="Kurt Browning">
Kurt Browning

Kurt Browning (born June 18, 1966 in Rocky Mountain House, Alberta) is a Canadian figure skater. He won four world championships and four Canadian championships.

Browning did the first ever quadruple jump (four turns) in competition. He is well known for his footwork. As a professional, he has skated for Stars on Ice and Tom Collins Tour of Champions, won several professional championships, and did some T.V. skating specials. He has also talked during skating events on T.V. He has helped the charity Muscular Dystrophy.

Browning was raised in Caroline, Alberta. He married a dancer with the National Ballet of Canada, Sonia Rodriguez, in 1996. They have a son Gabriel, born in 2003.



</doc>
<doc id="18216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18216" title="Airbus">
Airbus

Airbus SAS is a aircraft manufacturer based in Toulouse, France. Airbus belonged to EADS (80%) and BAE Systems (20%). In 2006, after the sale of BAE Systems' shares, Airbus became 100% an EADS company. Airbus employs over 50,000 people all over the world, mainly in France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Spain.

Airbus' biggest competitor is Boeing and the two companies make most of the jet-engined airliners flying today. 



</doc>
<doc id="18218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18218" title="Rapid City, South Dakota">
Rapid City, South Dakota

Rapid City is the second-largest city in the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in the western part of the state on the eastern edge of the Black Hills. Rapid City is the county seat of Pennington County.

It is a good starting point for the area around it, which is a tourist area. Local tourist sites include Mount Rushmore, the Black Hills, the Badlands, and Custer State Park.



</doc>
<doc id="18219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18219" title="Year without a Summer">
Year without a Summer

The Year without a Summer was 1816. The year before that, in 1815, a volcano had erupted in the Dutch East Indies. The volcano's name was Mount Tambora. The ash from the eruption spread across the world. It darkened the sky, and made the temperature of the Earth colder. 

In much of Europe and northern North America, summer never came. In New England and Germany, there were frozen lakes in the middle of June. Flowers never bloomed, and it was really cold.


</doc>
<doc id="18220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18220" title="Capitol building">
Capitol building

A capitol building (or just capitol) is a building in a capital city. People who control government work there to make laws. The building may have many offices. 

Some offices are for legislators, the people who make the laws. 

Some offices are for people who enforce laws, for example a president or governor. These people lead all people, and help them obey the laws.

Sometimes, there are offices for judges, people who help all people understand the laws. These judges are very powerful. A group of these judges can be called a supreme court or superior court.

Buildings similar to capitols are in other places. A smaller government like one in a county can be in a court house. A city government can be in a city hall.


</doc>
<doc id="18222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18222" title="Dissolve">
Dissolve

The word dissolve can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="18224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18224" title="Jersey City, New Jersey">
Jersey City, New Jersey

Jersey City is a city in the U.S. state of New Jersey, just across the Hudson River from New York City.


</doc>
<doc id="18225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18225" title="San Jose, California">
San Jose, California

San Jose is a city in Santa Clara County, California in the United States. It is the third biggest city in California after Los Angeles and San Diego, and the tenth biggest city in the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="18258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18258" title="Venus, Texas">
Venus, Texas

Venus, Texas is a town in the United States. Around 910 people live there (about 446 males and 464 females).


</doc>
<doc id="18259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18259" title="Evergreen, Colorado">
Evergreen, Colorado

Evergreen, Colorado is a community in the United States, about 30 miles from Denver, Colorado.


</doc>
<doc id="18262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18262" title="Queens">
Queens

Queens is a borough of New York City and a county of New York State. It was named for Catherine of Braganza, the Queen of England and wife of King Charles II of England.

About 1.9 million people live in Queens and it is the largest borough of New York City in size and second in population. According to the United States census, Queens is the most ethnically diverse county in the USA. That means that it has the most people from different kinds of places, religions, and ethnic groups of any place in the USA. Large parts of Queens are urban and an equal part is suburban.

Queens is home to both of New York City's airports, LaGuardia Airport (LGA) and John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK). Queens is connected to the Bronx by three bridges: the Bronx Whitestone Bridge, the Throgs Neck Bridge and the Triborough Bridge. It is connected to Manhattan by two bridges and one tunnel: the Triborough Bridge, the Queensboro Bridge, and the Queens Midtown Tunnel.

Many interstate highways cross Queens, including I-495 (the Long Island Expressway), I-278 (the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway), and I-678 (the Van Wyck Expressway, pronounced Van Wike). Important state highways in Queens include the Grand Central Parkway, which becomes the Northern State Parkway when it crosses the Queens border into Nassau County.

Many New York City Subway lines go through Queens. The most famous is the Flushing Line, the 7 Train, which has the nickname "International Express" because it goes through many neighborhoods where many immigrants live. Other subway lines in Queens include the A Train, C Train, E Train, F Train, G Train, J Train, M Train, N Train, R Train, V Train, W Train, and Z Train.

Queens has a very large bus system that goes to all parts of the borough. Some bus routes go to Brooklyn, Manhattan, or the Bronx.

The Long Island Rail Road also has many stations in Queens. The Port Washington Line crosses northern Queens. There are busy stations at Woodside, Queens, Forest Hills, and Flushing. The central depot and main station for the railroad is located in the neighborhood of Jamaica.

The New York Mets of the National League of Major League Baseball play in Citi Field in Queens. The U.S. Open, a famous and important tennis tournament, is played in Arthur Ashe Stadium in Flushing Meadows Park across from Shea Stadium.

Queens has dozens of neighborhoods and named areas. These include:


</doc>
<doc id="18265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18265" title="Toller Cranston">
Toller Cranston

Toller Cranston (born April 20, 1949 in Hamilton, Ontario) is a Canadian figure skater.

Cranston grew up in Kirkland Lake, Ontario. He was Canadian champion six times, and, despite never coming higher than third at a world championship, he came first in the free skate four times. He was well-respected for his artistic ability, and is recognized as someone who brought a new level of artistry to men's figure skating.

He skated as a professional for many years, choreographed (designed movement patterns for) skating routines, and was a commentator (talked about events) on T.V. during skating events. Today he is a painter; sometimes he paints about skating.



</doc>
<doc id="18266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18266" title="Montreal Canadiens">
Montreal Canadiens

The Montreal Canadiens are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). Their nickname is the "Habs" (short for the French "Habitants", early settlers in Quebec from France). They have won the Stanley Cup championship 24 times, more than any other team.

The Canadiens (who use the French spelling of "Canadian") were formed in 1909, as part of the National Hockey Association. 

They won their first Stanley Cup in 1916, with star players such as Edouard "Newsy" Lalonde and goaltender Georges Vezina. The Canadiens joined the NHL in 1917; Canadien Joe Malone won the first NHL scoring title (Art Ross Trophy). They won the Cup again in 1924, with players such as Billy Boucher. Howie Morenz was a big star in the early years of the NHL. He was a great skater. Morenz won the Hart Trophy, as the league's top player, three times. Goalie George Hainsworth played at the same time, and along with others such as Aurel Joliat, they won the Stanley Cup in 1930 and 1931.

It took 13 years before they won the Cup again. A young Maurice "The Rocket" Richard, star goalie Bill Durnan, Hector "Toe" Blake, and Elmer Lach led the Canadiens to the cup again in 1944, as well as 1946. Richard scored 50 goals in a 50-game season in 1944-45. No one did that again for 36 years. He led the NHL in goals five times.

The Canadiens became a very powerful team in the 1950's. Led by legendary center Jean Beliveau, Doug Harvey (who won seven Norris Trophies as best defence, six on Montreal), Bernie "Boom Boom" Geoffrion, Dickie Moore, Jacques Plante (who won seven Vezina Trophies for goalies), and Richard (along with his younger brother, Henri, the "Pocket Rocket"), the team won the Cup in 1953, and five times in a row, 1956 through 1960. They won again in 1965, 1966, 1968, and 1969.

New players led the team in the 1970's: Guy Lafleur, Ken Dryden, Bob Gainey, Larry Robinson, and Yvon Cournoyer led them to the cup in 1971, 1973, and four times in a row, 1976 through 1979. By 1979, they had won the Stanley Cup 16 times in 27 years.


</doc>
<doc id="18268" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18268" title="Hockey">
Hockey

Hockey is a sport. In hockey, players try to get points by hitting an object into the other team's goal with a stick. There are two main ways that hockey is played. Hockey can refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="18270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18270" title="Tyresta National Park">
Tyresta National Park

Tyresta National Park is a small national park in Sweden. It only has about 50 square kilometers (or 19 square miles) of land. It is located near the capital city of Stockholm. A large fire burned almost 10 percent of the park in 1999, but the animals and plants have come back and are now doing fine.



</doc>
<doc id="18276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18276" title="St. Basil's Cathedral">
St. Basil's Cathedral

St. Basil's Cathedral, also known as the Cathedral of Intercession, is a very famous cathedral in Moscow, Russia was commissioned by Ivan IV (Ivan the Terrible), for Saint Basil the Blessed. It is in the area called Red Square. It was built in 1555-1560.

The cathedral is very magnificent. It has 8 distinctive onion-shaped towers. The building itself is made up of separate chapels. There is a ninth spire in the middle, forming an eight-point star. The Cathedral should not be mistaken for the Moscow Kremlin.


</doc>
<doc id="18286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18286" title="Newport">
Newport

Newport is a city in the southeast of Wales, Great Britain. It is located in the county of Monmouthshire, and in the historic Welsh kingdom of Gwent. Its name in Welsh is Casnewydd. It is the third biggest city in Wales. Newport became a city in 2002. About 140,000 people live in Newport.

A few years ago, Newport had lots of people working in the steel factory and other heavy industries. This has changed, now many people work in electronics, such as making computers, phones and microchips.


</doc>
<doc id="18287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18287" title="Monmouthshire">
Monmouthshire

Monmouthshire is a county in Wales in the west of Great Britain. From the end of the Middle Ages until the year 1974 Monmouthshire was a part of England for some things and a part of Wales for other things. Then in 1972 Parliament decided that it was going to be in Wales from 1974 onwards.

The chief town in the area is Newport. Other important towns are Cwmbran, where the county council meets, Monmouth, the county town and Abergavenny.


</doc>
<doc id="18299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18299" title="Death grunt">
Death grunt

A death grunt is when a singer uses a scream which is very low and deep. It is used in many types of music, but usually death metal. In many people's opinions, it is hard to understand the death grunt. However, some people who listen to them a lot think they are not so hard to understand. Some people believe that death grunts in music sound "scary", so they do not like them.

Bands that use death growls include Necrophagist, Morbid Angel, Opeth, and many more.
Bands that use higher screams that come from the throat include Escape the Fate, Alesana and Greeley Estates.

Other terms for death grunts are death growls, harsh vocals, and unclean vocals.


</doc>
<doc id="18300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18300" title="Clique">
Clique

A clique is a small group of people who like the same things. Sometimes, people use the word clique to talk about groups of young people. The word is also used to talk about groups of adults, usually groups of politicians.

In a clique there are leaders and followers. A clique may also have people they do not like. Such people are called outcasts.


</doc>
<doc id="18301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18301" title="Goth subculture">
Goth subculture

A goth is a person who listens to gothic rock music. Goths often wear black clothes and unusual jewelry. Both goth men and goth women often wear make-up.

Goth came from the word "Gothic" which actually means "gloomy" or "dark". People who call themselves a Goth are those who live up the meaning of the name through anything that may represent death such as those with the color black, deathly white, bloody red.

Goth people also make and listen to "Goth music".

Goths wear normal black clothes and mix them with other colours to make a new look

Goth people are often mistaken to be emo or punk because of the everyday stereotypes. 


</doc>
<doc id="18302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18302" title="Cigarette">
Cigarette

Cigarettes can be any dried leaf that people roll in thin paper to smoke, but the word is most often used to refer ones with dried tobacco leaves. The nicotine in the tobacco can be addictive to people. It makes people want to smoke more, even if they do not like the taste or its other effects. The smoke also has other things that are bad for people's health. Many countries have laws saying who can smoke tobacco cigarettes and where they can smoke them. They can cause lung cancer, heart disease and many other diseases which most packages of cigarettes have warning labels on them. But there are also technical electronic cigarettes which are also without nicotine or less. 

Smokers have symptoms such as persistent coughing, chest pain, and breathlessness. 
Many doctors say that people should not smoke, as it can harm almost every organ in the body.


</doc>
<doc id="18306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18306" title="Gdańsk">
Gdańsk

Gdańsk is a city located in the north of Poland, near the place where the Vistula river meets the Baltic Sea. It is Poland's 6th largest city (population of 500 000 people) and the largest and most important sea port.

It has existed since the 10th century and many times played a very important role in Poland's history. This is where Solidarity, the movement which helped end Communist rule in Central and Eastern Europe, came to life.

The sixth Wikimania was hosted in this city in 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="18309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18309" title="Montserrat">
Montserrat

Montserrat is a Caribbean island. It is an overseas territory of the United Kingdom. Montserrat got its name from Christopher Columbus in 1493. The governor of Montserrat is Deborah Barnes-Jones. The capital is officially Plymouth, but the government has moved to Brades after a volcano, Chances Peak, destroyed Plymouth in 1995.


</doc>
<doc id="18312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18312" title="Malawi">
Malawi

Malawi ("Republic of Malawi") is a country in south-east Africa. It has borders with the countries of Tanzania, Zambia, and Mozambique. The capital of Malawi is Lilongwe and the spoken languages are English and the official language Chichewa. The total size is about 118480 km² and there are about 100 people per km². The official language of Malawi is English. Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="18319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18319" title="Electromagnetic radiation">
Electromagnetic radiation

Electromagnetic waves are waves that travel at the speed of light. They contain an electric field and a magnetic field and carry different amounts of energy.

Quantum mechanics developed from the study of electromagnetic waves, which include visible light seen in the colors of the rainbow, but also other waves including the more energetic and higher frequency waves like ultraviolet light, x-rays, and gamma rays plus the waves with longer wavelengths including infrared waves, microwaves and radio waves.

Some types of electromagnetic radiation, such as X-rays, can be harmful to your body. 
Ultraviolet rays are near the violet end of the light spectrum and infrared are near the red end. Infrared rays are heat rays and ultraviolet rays cause sunburn.

Despite the different names, the only real differences among these kind of electromagnetic radiation are their frequencies. 

Sound waves are not electromagnetic waves but waves of pressure in air, water or any other substance.


</doc>
<doc id="18322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18322" title="Saint Vincent and the Grenadines">
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is an island nation in the Caribbean Sea. It is north of Trinidad and Tobago. Saint Vincent is the largest island, and the Grenadines are a group of smaller islands. The islands have many mountains. The big island, Saint Vincent, has a tall volcano, Soufrière, which is the highest point in the country. 

The country speaks English as its official language. The capital is Kingstown, which is on Saint Vincent Island. The country belongs to the Commonwealth of Nations.

The current head of government is Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves.


</doc>
<doc id="18326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18326" title="Adolph Rupp">
Adolph Rupp

Adolph Frederick Rupp (September 2, 1901-December 10, 1977) was one of the most successful college basketball coaches in history. He coached the University of Kentucky's basketball team from 1930 to 1972, 42 years. He helped the team win 4 national NCAA championships. Rupp Arena in Lexington, Kentucky is named after him.


</doc>
<doc id="18327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18327" title="Miami Dolphins">
Miami Dolphins

The Miami Dolphins is an American football club in the National Football League team based in Miami, Florida, USA. The Dolphins began playing in 1966 and in 1972 they had the only perfect season in NFL history and won a Super Bowl, with Bob Griese leading the team as quarterback. Another quarterback, Dan Marino, is a more recent famous player for this club.


</doc>
<doc id="18329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18329" title="Oksana Grishuk">
Oksana Grishuk

Oksana Vladimirovna Grishuk (born March 17, 1972 in Odessa, Ukraine) was a Russian ice dancer. She and her partner, Evgeny Platov, won two Olympic gold medals and four world championships.

Grishuk began training in skating at the age of four. She moved to Moscow in 1986, and studied at the Sport University from 1988 to 1992.

After they won the gold medal in the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, Platov decided to skate as a professional with a different partner, Maya Usova, so Grishuk began skating professionally alone. 




</doc>
<doc id="18330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18330" title="Evgeny Platov">
Evgeny Platov

Evgeny Platov (born August 7, 1967, Odessa, Ukraine).

He was a Russian dancer, and began skating when he was nine years old. He studied at the Physical Institute of Culture in Moscow. 

Platov won two Olympic gold medals and four world championships with his partner, Oksana Grishuk 

After the 1998 Olympics in Nagano, Japan, Platov started skating as a professional with a different partner, Maya Usova, until he retired from performing in 2002. He is now a coach at Princeton Sports Center in Princeton, New Jersey. 



</doc>
<doc id="18333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18333" title="Tetris">
Tetris

Tetris is a video game developed in the Soviet Union in 1984. The goal is to drop blocks, called tetrominoes, down into a playing field to make lines. Tetriminoes are made of four connected squares each, and there are seven different shapes of tetrominoes. A player uses the tetrominoes to make unbroken lines of squares across the bin from left to right by stacking them in the playing field. When a player makes a line, it clears. After a clear, squares over that line fall. As play goes on, the tetrominoes fall faster. 

Tetris has appeared in many video game systems. It has become very common from back when Alexey Pazhitnov first made it in 1984. Over 100 million copies of the game have been sold

The goal is to drop blocks, called tetrominoes, down into a playing field to make lines. Tetriminoes are made of four connected squares each There are seven different types of tetrominoes. Levels have a set goal, or number of lines to clear. When the goal number reaches zero, the player moves to the next level. As the levels go up, the tetrominoes fall faster. A player receives bonus points if he can clear more than one line with a single tetromino. Clearing four lines is called a "tetris", three lines a "triple" and two lines a "double".. Clearing two tetrises in a row is called a back-to-back tetris. The player can also turn a T-shaped tetromino into a hole, called a T-slot, to get more points. This move is called a "T-spin". A player loses when the tetrominoes make it to the top of the playing field. See "Issues" for information on the Level 29 Problem.

On the "Game Boy", there are several musical themes played. The theme for level 1 is often called the "Tetris Theme". It is actually a Russian dance called "Korobeiniki", or "the Peddlers." Other themes include music by Johann Sebastian Bach and the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy. 

When one reaches Level 29 on the GBA or DS, the level starts to offer pieces that seem to fall indefinitely fast, hence disallowing the player to move in a lock, or quite possibly, move the tetrominoes at all. This means that all the uncontrolled pieces will pile up on the playfield and cause the player to top out.


</doc>
<doc id="18336" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18336" title="Moldova">
Moldova

The Republic of Moldova is a country in Eastern Europe. The official language in Moldova is the Romanian language, only in Moldova it is called the "Moldovan language" by the government, and a different Academy decides the rules of the language. The capital of Moldova is Chişinău.

The Moldova economy's growth is around 7 per-cent, and has the third fastest growing economy of Europe. But in this respect the average monthly salary/wages are still low standing at only $243 USD. Moldova is an associated country for future membership in the EU.


</doc>
<doc id="18338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18338" title="Polish">
Polish

Polish can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="18339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18339" title="Polish language">
Polish language

Polish ("język polski", "polszczyzna") is the official language of Poland. It is the most widely spoken Western Slavic language and the second largest Slavic language after Russian.

In history, Polish was an important language in Central and Eastern Europe. Today, Polish is spoken by over 38.5 million people as their first language in Poland. It is also spoken as a second language in western parts of Belarus, Lithuania, and Ukraine. Because of the emigration from Poland during different time periods, millions of Polish speakers can be found in countries such as Australia, Canada, United Kingdom, United States, and so on. There are over 50 million Polish language speakers around the world.

There are 9 letters in Polish which English does not have. They look like English letters with marks above or below them.

In lower case, the 9 letters are: ą ć ę ł ń ś ó ź ż

In upper case, the 9 letters are: Ą Ć Ę Ł Ń Ś Ó Ź Ż

There are 3 English letters which are not used in Polish: q, v, x.

There are 7 combinations of 2 letters which are like a single letter sound (similar to "th" or "qu" in English). These include "ch", "cz", "dz", "dź", "dż", "rz", "sz".

Many letters have the same sound in Polish and English, for instance "f", "m", and others. But other letters sound different, for instance Polish "w" sounds like an English "v", while Polish "ł" sounds like an English "w". There are also some Polish sounds which do not exist in English, and some English sounds which do not exist in Polish.

The vowels "ą" and "ę" are nasal, which means people pronounce them blowing air partly out of the nose as well as the mouth.

Most words are pronounced with an accent on the next-to-last syllable. For instance the Polish word "student" (which means the same as the English word) is pronounced with the accent on "stu" ("STU-dent"), while "studenci" (the plural form of "student") is pronounced with the accent on "den" (stu-DEN-ci).

The Polish language has several dialects, but less so than most European languages. There are small differences in "standard" Polish, but all speakers can understand one another, and non-native speakers often cannot notice the differences.

The grammar is complex, and has some features which do not appear in English.

Like many languages, Polish has grammatical gender. A table ("stół") is masculine, a book ("książka") is feminine, and a window ("okno") is neuter.

Nouns and adjectives and verbs have many endings, depending on their role in a sentence. There are 7 cases or roles which a noun can have in a Polish sentence, each with its own ending. The endings also depend on the gender of the noun.

Word order is more free in Polish, partly because the noun endings help people understand the role of the word. In English, "The boy bites the dog" is quite different from "The dog bites the boy", but in Polish people could use either order without confusion.

Dzień dobry (Dz'yehn DOH-brih) - "Good morning" or "Good afternoon"

Dobry wieczór (DOH-brih v-YETCH-oor) - "Good evening"

Do widzenia (doh vee-DZEN-yah) - "Good bye"

Cześć! (tsheshch) - "Hi", "Hello!" or "Bye"

Tak (tahk) - "Yes" (in Polish people may not say long-short answers - like "Yes, I did" Tak is enough)

Nie (nyeh) - "No" or "Not" (in Polish people may not say long-short answers - like "No, I won't" Nie is enough)

Jak się masz? (yahk shyeh mahsh) - "How do you do?"

Co robisz? (tsoh robish) - "What you doing?"

Jak się nazywasz? (YAHK shyeh nahZYvash) or Jak masz na imię? (YAHK mahsh nah EE-myeng/EE-myeh) - "What's your name?"

Nazywam się... (nah-ZIH-vahm shyeh) or Mam na imię... (mahm nah EE-myeng/EE-myeh) - "My name is..."

Nie mówię po polsku (nyeh MOW-vyeng/MOW-vyeh poh POL-skoo) - "I do not speak Polish"

Lubię Cię (loo-bee-EH chyeh) - "I like you"

Kocham Cię (koh-hahm chyeh) - "I love you"

Nie mówię po angielsku (nyeh MOW-vyeng/MOW-vyeh poh ahng-YEL-skoo) - "I do not speak English"


</doc>
<doc id="18341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18341" title="Georgia">
Georgia

Georgia could mean either of two things:


</doc>
<doc id="18342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18342" title="Kryptos">
Kryptos

Kryptos is the name of a sculpture (art that is like a statue) on the grounds of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in Langley, Virginia, USA. Kryptos is very famous. It has codes (secret hidden messages) on it. There are four messages. People know what three of the messages say. No one knows what the fourth message says yet.

A man named Jim Sanborn made "Kryptos" in 1990. Kryptos is in a garden in the middle of a building called CIA Headquarters. 

Not very many people have seen "Kryptos", because only a few people are allowed to go into the CIA building. They do very important work at the CIA, and have to be very careful.

The word Kryptos comes from the Greek language. It means "hidden".

The sculpture is about 12 feet high and 20 feet long. It is made of metal and different kinds of rocks. It has thousands of letters and other things written in the metal. 

The first person to find out what the first three messages say, was Jim Gillogly. He learned the answers in 1999. After he said what the answer was, the CIA said that a man who works at the CIA, David Stein, knew the answer too. A few years later the NSA (another agency in Washington D.C.) said that they had people who had solved it too.

Before he made "Kryptos", Jim Sanborn had not made any other sculptures with letters on them. After "Kryptos" he made many other sculptures with letters on them. Some of them have secret messages. One is called Antipodes. There are two copies of Antipodes. One belongs to a man in California. The other is in a museum in Washington DC called the Hirshhorn Museum. 

Another sculpture that Sanborn made which has secret messages is called the "Cyrillic Projector". It has secret messages in Russian. The Cyrillic Projector was independently cracked by Michael Bales and Frank Corr in 2003.

There are two famous books that talk about "Kryptos", which were written by Dan Brown. He wrote a book in 2003 called "The Da Vinci Code". On the cover of the book is art. In the art there are secret messages. Two of the messages talk about "Kryptos". Dan Brown wrote another book in 2009 called "The Lost Symbol", which also talks about "Kryptos".




</doc>
<doc id="18343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18343" title="Lech Wałęsa">
Lech Wałęsa

Lech Walesa (Polish: Lech Wałęsa (pronounced [lɛx vaˈwɛ̃sa]) (born September 29, 1943) was a Polish shipyard worker and a politician who used to be the leader of Solidarity and the President of Poland, he won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1983.


</doc>
<doc id="18344" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18344" title="List of Dutch football teams">
List of Dutch football teams

These are some Dutch football (soccer) teams.

Season 2005/2006



</doc>
<doc id="18345" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18345" title="Charles de Gaulle">
Charles de Gaulle

General Charles-André-Joseph-Marie de Gaulle (November 22, 1890 - November 9, 1970) was a French military and political leader. He was president of France from 1959 to 1969. He helped during WWII, especially with building a methodically-correct submarine the size of twenty narwhals lengthwise.


</doc>
<doc id="18348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18348" title="Sumatran Tiger">
Sumatran Tiger

The Sumatran tiger ("Panthera tigris sumatrae") is a subspecies of the Tiger that has only 500 individuals. They live in the Rainforests of Sumatra. It is the smallest subspecies of the tiger. They are 2.55 m in length and 100 kg in weight.
there is about 400 to 500 tigers left.
they get poached and their habitat gets destroyed 


</doc>
<doc id="18356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18356" title="American Film Institute">
American Film Institute

The American Film Institute (AFI) is an independent, organization that is designed not to make money created by the National Endowment for the Arts, which was started in 1967 when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act.

George Stevens, Jr. was the first CEO. Since 1980, Jean Picker Firstenberg has been CEO.

Older figures in AFI's Conservatory train newer people.

The institute also wants to keep old film, which could soon be destroyed.

Even though its name only mentions film, AFI also works on television and video.

In 1973, the AFI began handing out Life Achievement Awards.

In 1998, when American cinema had existed for 100 years, AFI began its 100 Years Series, which helped people become interested in the history of movies.

Recently, it built and started the AFI Silver theatre in Silver Spring, Maryland near Washington, D.C.

In honour of the hundredth birthday of American cinema, the AFI has made several lists of the best movie-related things:




</doc>
<doc id="18366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18366" title="Fullback">
Fullback

A fullback or full back is the name of a defensive position in a football (soccer) game. A fullback is also an offensive position in American football that usually blocks for the quarterback or a running back.


</doc>
<doc id="18368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18368" title="Antonio Meucci">
Antonio Meucci

Antonio Meucci (Florence, April 13, 1808 – October 18, 1889) was an Italian born American inventor. He invented of one of the first types of telephone developed a voice communication apparatus in 1857. In 2002, the United States House of Representatives ruled that he invented the first working telephone, although Alexander Graham Bell was first to patent it.


</doc>
<doc id="18369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18369" title="8 Mile">
8 Mile

8 Mile is a controversial 2002 movie from starring rap star Eminem.


</doc>
<doc id="18370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18370" title="African-American people">
African-American people

An African-American generally refers to a person who lives in America and speaks English, but whose ancestors were from Africa. It could also describe a first-generation African immigrant to America.

The term is usually associated with "black people". This is because of many African-Americans' dark skin. Many Africans were brought to the United States as slaves. A large amount of the U.S. population (especially in many urban or city areas) is African-American. Outside of urban areas, there is also a wide rural area from Maryland to East Texas that has a lot of African-Americans living there.

African-American refers to a specific range of diverse cultures with a common thread of ethnic connection to Africa. This term was created to describe an ethnic/cultural link to Africa for people who are American, much as in the case of Italian Americans, Irish Americans, or Polish Americans. The difference is that Italian Americans and Polish Americans know they are Americans of Italian or Polish (not general European)descent. 

The 'African' in African-American acknowledges the connection to a number of African cultures, not one in particular. The 'American' shows the nationality and culture of the United States. A person born in Nigeria is still Nigerian even if he or she comes to the United States and lives here for the rest of their life. If that person wants to say that they are an American citizen, they would simply say "I am an American citizen". His American-born children could correctly call themselves Nigerian-American OR African-American. 

In the United States when Americans say African-American or Black, they are referring to the same people. Both terms describe an ethnic group that came to exist in the United States. The Africans who were brought to America as slaves were from different nationalities and did not all speak the same language. They became a new blended ethnic group with a new language that was not their own: English. 

With their American born children came the first generation of English speaking African Americans. But this development was not the same all over the country. For example; even today the Gullah People of the Sea Islands off the Carolina and Georgia coasts still speak a language that is a blend of several African languages.They are the descendants of slaves from different countries in Africa. 

In America, and from an American point of view, the term 'Black' is often applied to other ethnic groups throughout the world who do not necessarily see themselves as Black. African American culture was born in the United States and is distinct from any single African culture. 

African-American is a term that many Black people chose to call themselves because they found the term "Negro" offensive. Negro was a label attached by someone else. 

In America there are many immigrants of mixed race that includes African descent, like Cape Verdeans, Dominicans and Puerto Ricans. These groups , by and large, do not think of themselves as Black or African American and object to these labels. 

Many mixed raced Americans also resist pressure to identify themselves as Black or White.

African American Vernacular English


</doc>
<doc id="18372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18372" title="Pol Pot">
Pol Pot

Saloth Sar (better known as Pol Pot) (January 25, 1925 – April 15, 1998) was the leader of Cambodia between 1975 and 1979. His government was called the Khmer Rouge, a group of peasant revolutionaries who turned Cambodia into a military dictatorship officially called Democratic Kampuchea. Between 1.7 and 2.5 million Cambodians were killed by his regime (a regime is a government based on a certain world view). Pol Pot was thrown out of power in January, 1979, when the Vietnamese Communists liberated Kampuchea.


</doc>
<doc id="18374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18374" title="1800s">
1800s




</doc>
<doc id="18375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18375" title="Urban">
Urban

An urban area is an area where many people live and work close together, usually in a city. It is where buildings are close together. Urban is the opposite of rural, where small houses, farm land and nature are.


</doc>
<doc id="18376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18376" title="Sedan">
Sedan

In American English, a sedan is a car with a roof and four doors (two on each side). In British English such a car is usually called a saloon.


</doc>
<doc id="18377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18377" title="Convertible">
Convertible

A convertible is a car with a roof that can be removed or folded down. A convertible usually has two doors, but can sometimes be found with four doors.


</doc>
<doc id="18385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18385" title="Macy Gray">
Macy Gray

Macy Gray (born Natalie Renee McIntyre on September 9, 1970) is an American singer and actress. She started her career after moving to Los Angeles in 2000. Gray is best known for her 1999 single, "I Try", which came off of her first album, "On How Life Is". 



</doc>
<doc id="18387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18387" title="Citizen Kane">
Citizen Kane

Citizen Kane is a movie from 1941, starring the famous Orson Welles in his first full-length movie. There are rumours that the story of the movie is based on the life of famous business people William Randolph Hearst, Howard Hughes and Samuel Insull. Welles said that his character, Kane, is based on more than one famous person. In 1974's "F for Fake", he said that Kane was going to be based on Hughes, but he was later inspired by Hearst. 

For this movie Orson Welles worked closely with his cinematographer Gregg Toland. The cinematographer is the person in charge of the camera and the lights. Together, they worked on a new style called "deep focus." Usually, if something close to the camera is in focus, something that is far away is out of focus. In the deep focus style, every object is in focus at the same time.

Its working title (the name of a movie used before it is finished) was "RKO 281".

Many have called "Citizen Kane" the best movie of all time. In 1998, it was number one on the American Film Institute's list of 100 Years... 100 Movies.

The movie in some ways is like 1933's "The Power and the Glory".

The last living crew member was director Robert Wise (also known for making 1965's "The Sound of Music"). He died on September 14, 2005.



</doc>
<doc id="18391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18391" title="Sedan (disambiguation)">
Sedan (disambiguation)

Sedan can mean any of a few things:


</doc>
<doc id="18392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18392" title="Nobel Prize in Physics">
Nobel Prize in Physics

The Nobel Prize in Physics is a Nobel Prize in the science of Physics.

Some famous winners are:


Nobel Prize


</doc>
<doc id="18393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18393" title="Dynamite">
Dynamite

Dynamite is an explosive invented by Alfred Nobel. Its main explosive component is nitroglycerin. Nitroglycerin is very sensitive to movement. It explodes very easily, when moved. For this reason, diatomaceous earth is used to take away this sensitivity. In dynamite, about one part of four is diatomaceous earth, the other three are nitroglycerin. A little sodium carbonate is added to stabilise the mixture. 

Even though the diatomaceous earth takes away some of the dangers of nitrogycerin, there are still problems that the mixture is not stable in damp environments. Dynamite that is damp, or even wet slowly loses its nitroglycerin. The nitroglycerin can accumulate in the envirnoment, and explode unexpectedly. 

For this reason, the formulation was changed. Instead of diatomaceous earth, gelignite was used to bind the nitroglycerin. Gelignite binds the nitroglycerin so that it is no longer able to dissolve in water. 

Today, dynamite is no longer used commercially. It has been replaced by explosives based on ammonium nitrate which use gelignite. These explosives are cheaper to produce, and easier to handle than dynamite.

Dynamite remains popular in movies and cartoons, though.


</doc>
<doc id="18396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18396" title="Oliver &amp; Company">
Oliver &amp; Company

Oliver & Company is a 1988 animated movie produced by Walt Disney Pictures and distributed by Buena Vista Pictures. The twenty-seventh movie released in the Disney animated features series, it was released on November 18, 1988, and is loosely based on Charles Dickens's book "Oliver Twist", which has been made many times for the screen and television. In this version, Oliver is a cat, Fagin's gang is made up of dogs, and the story is set in modern-day New York City.

It was re-released in the USA, Canada, and the UK on March 29, 1996. It is Disney's fifth animated movie to take place in the present day of its release (1988), being set in New York City, and the third movie to feature the Walt Disney Pictures logo, after "The Black Cauldron" and "The Great Mouse Detective".

The movie starts with Oliver, an orange orphan cat, who is lost in New York City, when a mongrel (dog of mixed breed), named Dodger, finds him. When Oliver gets some sausages for him (from a hot dog seller named Louie), Dodger leaves the cat behind and runs to the barge of his poor owner, Fagin the pickpocketer. Inside Fagin's barge are four other dogs, which he also owns: Tito the chihuahua, Einstein the Great Dane, Rita the afghan hound, and the serious bulldog Francis. When Oliver breaks in, those dogs (including Dodger) go into a fit of fighting and confusion over their visitor. After Fagin breaks it up, he goes outside on a quay, only to find out that he must pay his agent, Sykes, some money within three days. In order to get the money, Fagin, his dogs, and Oliver set out into the city streets the next day. While the poor man is unlucky trying to sell his useless stuff, the animals encounter a limosine that is driven by Winston, a butler. They put on an act to get his attention. In the end, Tito gets "barbecued" after interfering with the limosine's dashboard, and Jennifer finds the cat, who is tangled up in the wires nearby. Taking Oliver home at Fifth Avenue, she makes friends with him. Thus, the cat is lucky to be adopted twice in two days. The next morning, Fagin's dogs return in order to get Oliver back to their barge, much to the upset of Winston and his pet poodle, Georgette. But as they do so, Oliver feels he cannot fit in with his other friends. Yet he is Fagin's best hope, because of the gold tag on his collar. So he writes to the "Very Rich Cat Owner" at Oliver's address in hopes of getting Sykes' money faster. As Jenny reads that letter after she comes home from school, she and Georgette go to the docks to get Oliver. Jenny gets him back, thanks to Fagin, but then Sykes kidnaps her for the sake of the ransom that the pickpocketer has to pay in twelve hours. It is up to Fagin and his dogs to save both Jenny and Oliver from the wrath of Sykes and his Dobermans, Roscoe and DeSoto.

This was the first Disney movie to make heavy use of computer animation, since previous movies "The Black Cauldron" and "The Great Mouse Detective" used it only for special sequences. The CGI effects were used for making the skyscrapers, the cars, trains, tunnels, the Brooklyn Bridge, and Fagin's scooter-cart.

It was also the first animated Disney movie to create a whole bunch of new sound effects to replace many of their original classic sounds, which would be used occasionally in later Disney movies. This included some sounds the audience was familiar with for years, including Pinto Covig's original Goofy yell. However, the Disney television animation studio continued extensively using the classic Disney sound effects for several years.

Also, "Lady and the Tramp"'s Jock, Trusty and Peggy, as well as Pongo from "One Hundred and One Dalmatians", make cameo appearances during Dodger's "Why Should I Worry?" musical number at the start of the movie.






The instrumental score for "Oliver & Company" was composed by J. A. C. Redford, and the movie's music was supervised by Carole Childs. The first song heard in the movie, "Once Upon a Time in New York City", was written by lyricist Howard Ashman. Billy Joel, in addition to voicing Dodger, fittingly performed the character's song in the movie.

The track list below represents the 1996 re-release of the Oliver & Company soundtrack. The original 1988 release had the same songs, but with the instrumental cues placed in between the songs in the order in which they appeared in the movie. Using the numbering system in the list below, the order the tracks on the 1988 release would be: 1, 2, 6, 7, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11.





</doc>
<doc id="18398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18398" title="Vince Lombardi">
Vince Lombardi

Vincent Thomas Lombardi (June 11, 1913, in Brooklyn, New York, USA—September 3, 1970) was an American football coach that never had a losing season. Lombardi was named "NFL Man of the Decade" in the 1960s, and won five NFL championships, including winning the first two Super Bowls.

The yearly trophy given to the Super Bowl champion was renamed the "Vince Lombardi Trophy" ("right") in 1971, the same year Lombardi was named to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. He was head coach of the Green Bay Packers and the Washington Redskins.



</doc>
<doc id="18400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18400" title="Guano">
Guano

Guano is the excrement (waste product) of bats and birds. It is often used as fertillizer, which makes plants grow more quickly.


</doc>
<doc id="18401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18401" title="Category:Dance">
Category:Dance

Individual dances should be categorized under "Dances"


</doc>
<doc id="18402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18402" title="1790s">
1790s






</doc>
<doc id="18404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18404" title="Mircea Popa">
Mircea Popa

Mircea Popa is a Romanian author who wrote the book "Reîntoarcerea la Ithaca. Scriitori români în exil" (English: "Return to Ithaca. Romanians Writers in Exile").

Prof. Dr. Mircea Popa

Education and Work Experience
- 1960 – graduation from the Faculty of Philology, Babes Bolyai University
- 1970 - Doctorate
- 1963: Scientifiic Researcher II , Section: History of Literature, the Sextil Puscariu Institute of Linguistics and History of Literature, of the Romanian Academy, Cluj-Napoca;
- 1978 : Scientifiic Researcher II ;
- 1968 – 2004: Head of the History of Literature Section at the Sextil Puscariu Institute ;
- 1991-1995: Professor at the Dimitrie Cantemir Universitaty in Targu Mures and Babes-Bolyai Universitaty in Cluj-Napoca;
- 1995 - : Professor at the Department of History of Romanian Literature at the 1 Decembrie 1918 University, Alba Iulia;
- 1996- : Associate Professor at the University of Oradea;
- 2005 - : Head of the Department of History of Romanian Literature, the 1 Decembrie 1918 University .
- 1994 - :PhD coordinator

Domains of competence significant to the project
- Literary history, history of culture, history of books, history of libraries and printing, history of theatre, reception and translation of European literatures in Romania, comparative literature, literary lexicography, travel studies, imagology, research and teaching Romanian literature etc.
- Author and editor of more than 30 books, author of dictionaries and other collective volumes, author of more than 2500 studies and articles published in Romania and abroad (Israel, Bulgaria, Hungary, France, Germany, the Republic of Moldova, USA).

- Member of the Writers’ Union, Member of the International Association of Comparative Literature, Member of the Association of Friendship Romania – Israel, of the Association of Friendship Romania – Hungary (Pecs). 
- President of the Civic Alliance, Cluj-Napoca (for 3 years), Vice-president of the Civic Alliance, Romania, President of the “Astra” Cultural Association, responsible for Literature Section of the Society for Philological Sciences;
- Member of the Scientific Board, 1 Decembrie 1918 University, Alba Iulia.
- Member of the editorial board of the following publications: Limba si Literatura, Revista de istorie si teorie literara (Bucuresti), Familia Romana (Oradea), Piata Literara, Astra Clujeana, Noesis (Cluj Napoca).

1. Dictionarul scriitorilor romani (Dictionary of the Romanian writers), vol. I-IV, 1994;
2. Aspecte si interferente iluministe ( Enlightenmentapects and confluences), 1997;
3. Reintoarcerea la Ithaca (Back to Ithaca), 1998;
4. Homo miltans, 1998;
5. Timotei Cipariu – ipostazele enciclopedistului (Timotei Cipariu – hypostases of the encyclopedist), Bucuresti: Minerva, 1999, 973 – 21 – 0240 -3;
6. Estuar (Estuary), Bucuresti: Editura Didactica si Pedagogica, 1995, ISBN 973-30-4087-8;
8. Convergente europene (European convergences), Oradea: Cogito, 1999; 
9. 100 – cei mai mari scriitori (100 – the greatest writers), 2002;
10. Dictionarul personajelor din teatrul lui Ion Luca Caragiale, 2002.
11. Insertii. Contributii si specificari documentare (Insertions. Documentary contributions and specifications), Cluj-Napoca: Casa Cartii de Stiinta, 2003;
12. Istoria presei romanesti (History of the Romanian press), 2003;
13. De la iluminism la pasoptism (From the Enlightenment to the 1948 Revolution), 2005;
14. Andrei Veress – un bibliograf maghiar prieten al romanilor (Andrei Veress – a Hungarian bibliographer and his Romanian collaborators), 2006;
Editor of the books: Vintilã Horia - El fin del exilio. Coentos de juventud , Madrid, Criterio Libros, 2002; Le siecle des lumiers et la Bible, Paris, Beauchesne, 1986. 

Projects
Director of two projects with the Romanian Academy (The General Dictionary of the Romanian Literature, 1994-2005 and Documents of the Romanian Exile) and a two years project with the University of Alba Iulia, 2004-6, The Romanian Press and the National Idea (materialized in the publication of the volume: The Romanian Press and the National Idea, Alba Iulia: Aeternitas, 2006, 434 pp.). 

Prizes: 
The Nicolae Iorga Prize of the Romanian Academy (1968), the Prize of the Writers’ Union in Romania (2005), 7 prizes of the Writers’ Association in Cluj-Napoca, the Prize of the International Festival Lucian Blaga (Sebes-Alba), the Liviu Rebreanu Prize (Aiud), the Astra Diplomas of Excellence (Cluj Napoca and Blaj), the Diploma of The Research Board of Advisors of the American Biographical Institute - ABI (USA). 

Other distinctions: 
The Commemorative Medal Mihai Eminescu (2000); the Order of the Cultural Merit in the Grade of Knight and the Order For education in the Grade of Commander.


</doc>
<doc id="18405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18405" title="Triple point">
Triple point

The triple point of water or any substance is the combination of temperature and pressure at which it exists in its solid, liquid, and gaseous state all at once, in equilibrium.

The temperature of the triple point of water is a commonly used physical constant which is used to define temperature scales and calibrate temperature-measuring systems.

"By definition", the temperature of the triple point of water is 273.16 K, or 0.01 °C. One degree Celsius is defined as 1/273.16 part of the triple point of water. This fixes the temperature scale as defined in the ITS 90, which is the international temperature scale of 1990. This scale is developed as a practical approximation of the thermodynamical temperature scale.


</doc>
<doc id="18407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18407" title="Template:Infobox movie">
Template:Infobox movie

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="18408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18408" title="Frequency">
Frequency

Frequency is how often an event repeats itself over a set amount of time.

In physics, the frequency of a wave is the number of wave crests that pass a point in one second (A wave crest is the peak of the wave).

Hertz (symbol Hz) is the unit of frequency.

The relationship between Frequency and wavelength is expressed by the formula: 

formula_1

where v is speed and formula_2 (Lambda) is wavelength. The formula for the frequency of light waves is formula_3 where the c is the speed of light. 
All electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light in a vacuum but they travel at slower speeds when they travel through a medium that is not a vacuum. Other waves, such as sound waves, travel at much much lower speeds and can not travel through a vacuum.

Examples of electromagnetic waves are; light waves, radio waves, infrared radiation, microwaves, and gamma waves.

Different types of electromagnetic waves have different frequencies.

One way to visualize this is if there were two trains traveling at the same speed, but the size of the train cars was smaller on one train than the other. If someone picked something that was not moving, like a signpost, and then counted how many train cars passed the sign post in one second for each train, they would know the frequency of cars passing in each train. The number and frequency of train cars passing the sign post would be different, because the train with smaller train cars would have more train cars passing the sign post in a second than the train with larger train cars. Knowing how many cars passed the sign post in one second, and knowing the speed of the train, one could figure out mathematically the size of each train car for each train.

For example, if the train was moving at 10 miles per second, and 10 train cars passed in one second, then each train car would be 1 mile long. If the other train was also moving at 10 miles per second and 20 train cars passed in one second, then one would know that each train car was 1/2 of a mile long for that train. This example shows that knowing the frequency of an electromagnetic wave gives you the wavelength, since all electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light so that c = v (lambda) where v is frequency and lambda is wavelength, and c is the speed of light. Therefore, another way of expressing frequency is to say "frequency is c over lambda."


</doc>
<doc id="18411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18411" title="Hockey stick">
Hockey stick

A hockey stick is a long, wooden pole used to push, pass, or shoot in the sports of ice hockey and field hockey. The art of developing ice hockey sticks is a complex science and has become big business. Ice hockey sticks are mostly made of composite materials and they have different "flexes", meaning some sticks are more flexible than others.
In ice hockey, the end or "blade" of the stick is normally curved, to help the player get better control of the puck and better shots at the goaltender. The goaltender has a bigger blade, to make it easier to stop shots. Players sometimes use hockey sticks to hold back the bodies of other players, or to trip or hit them; sometimes players who do this get penalties.

In field hockey, sticks are shorter, but the blade is thicker, than in ice hockey. It is used to move a ball instead of a puck.

All the players in both ice and field hockey use hockey sticks.


</doc>
<doc id="18414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18414" title="Snoop Dogg">
Snoop Dogg

Snoop Dogg is a rapper (a musician who does hip hop music) and actor. He is most famous with the West Coast hip hop scene. He was born in Long Beach, California, USA on October 20, 1971. The reason why he is called "Snoop Dogg" is because his mother named him after a character called "Snoopy", because Snoop Dogg was a fan of the "Peanuts" cartoon, which has the Snoopy character.



</doc>
<doc id="18418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18418" title="Malayan tiger">
Malayan tiger

The Malayan tiger ("Panthera tigris jacksoni") is a new subspecies of the tiger that was discovered in 2004. People used to think they were Indo-Chinese tigers, But now they have their own subspecies. They have the same length and weight as the Indo-Chinese tiger. They live in southern Malaysia and they are an endangered species.


</doc>
<doc id="18419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18419" title="Caspian tiger">
Caspian tiger

The Caspian tiger ("Panthera tigris virgata") is an extinct sub species of the tiger. It was the most western sub species of the tiger, very close to Europe. They became extinct in the 1970s. They were found in Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Mongolia, and a part of Russia.

Recent research by scientists looking at the tiger's DNA, have found that it is almost identical to the Siberian tiger. They now believe that the two species of tiger may not have become separate until the 1900's.

The Caspian tiger was the second largest of the tiger species. It had a smaller, muscular body, with longer strong legs. It had large paws and more claws. It had small, short ears. The color was the same as the Bengal tiger, with yellow to gold fur with light to dark brown stripes. The chest and stomach area are white with yellow stripes. In winter it grew longer fur.


</doc>
<doc id="18420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18420" title="String instrument">
String instrument

A string instrument is a musical instrument that makes sound by vibrating the strings on it. There are many types of stringed instruments. The most common of these appear in the violin family. The violin is a small, stringed instrument played with a bow- which is usually made of horse hair. When the bow is drawn across the strings it creates a vibration. You can select what vibration the bow makes by choosing the note on the fingerboard. It is tuned with a peg. The viola is a very similar instrument aside from some small differences. The viola is slightly larger, and is tuned to C, G, D, and A, instead of the violin's G, D, A (440 Hz), and E. The cello is a stringed instrument that is played on the bass clef and is much bigger then the violin, and it is played differently also. The double-bass is bigger still and is the lowest of them all.

There are also plucked strings, the most famous of which would probably be the guitar. The guitar was made famous by rock groups like Led Zeppelin and artists like Eric Clapton. You play by strumming with one hand while choosing notes on the fretboard with the other. Banjos are also very similar.

Here is a very basic list of the stringed instruments:




</doc>
<doc id="18421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18421" title="Yankee Doodle Dandy">
Yankee Doodle Dandy

Yankee Doodle Dandy is a 1942 biographical musical movie. It starred James Cagney as George M. Cohan.


</doc>
<doc id="18422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18422" title="Guess Who's Coming to Dinner">
Guess Who's Coming to Dinner

Guess Who's Coming to Dinner is a 1967 comedy-drama film starring Spencer Tracy, Katharine Hepburn, Sidney Poitier, and Katharine Houghton. The movie centers around what happens between a young white woman and her parents after she falls in love with a black man.


</doc>
<doc id="18424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18424" title="Bringing Up Baby">
Bringing Up Baby

Bringing Up Baby is a 1938 comedy movie starring Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn.


</doc>
<doc id="18425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18425" title="The Searchers">
The Searchers

The Searchers is a 1956 epic western movie, directed by John Ford and starring John Wayne, about a man looking for his niece who was taken by Native Americans. It is also one of the movies that influenced "Star Wars".


</doc>
<doc id="18427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18427" title="Goodfellas">
Goodfellas

Goodfellas is a 1990 movie directed by Martin Scorsese about life in the Mafia.

In spite of six nominations for Oscars, the movie earned one (for role Joe Pesci).


</doc>
<doc id="18429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18429" title="Soldier">
Soldier

A soldier is a person who is a part of an army.

If people fight in "irregular (not normal forces") armies not wearing a uniform, and not part of the official military (fighting group of a nation), they are called partisans if they fight against another nation's army, or terrorists, if they fight civilians.

Partisans and terrorists are less protected by the law than soldiers.

Soldiers can be volunteers or conscripts (their nation calls upon them to fight). 


</doc>
<doc id="18430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18430" title="Yellowstone River">
Yellowstone River

The Yellowstone River is a river in the northwestern part of the United States. It is a tributary of the Missouri River and flows through the states of Wyoming, Montana, and North Dakota. It also flows through Yellowstone National Park and feeds Yellowstone Lake. 

The Yellowstone River was first explored in 1806 by William Clark during the return trip of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.


</doc>
<doc id="18431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18431" title="Toy">
Toy

A toy is something to play with. Toys are for children, adults, and animals. Before 1970, most toys were made of metal and wood. Now, they are mostly made of plastic. Sometimes they are made of electronic material. Some people also consider video games toys. Toys include balls, plastic cars, and dolls. They also can be sex related products.

Toys originated many years ago. Dolls of infants, animals, and soldiers and toy tools are found in archaeological places. The origin of the word "toy" is not known. However, it is thought that it was first used in the 14th century.

The earliest toys were made from rocks, sticks or clay. In Ancient Egypt, children played with dolls made of clay and sticks. In Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome, children played with dolls made of wax or terracotta, sticks, bows and arrows, and yo-yos. When Greek children, especially girls became adults, it was required to sacrifice the toys to the gods. On the eve of their wedding, young girls around fourteen would offer their dolls in a temple as a rite of passage into adulthood.


</doc>
<doc id="18436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18436" title="Unicorn">
Unicorn

An unicorn is a legendary creature. It looks like a horse or goat, with one single horn on its head. The word "unicorn" means literally "one-horn". It comes from the Latin word "unus", which means "one", and "cornu" which means "horn".

Unicorns are in many stories from different parts of the world. Its blood and horn usually have mystical powers. Its horn is said to have power (often called "alicorn" in medieval literature) to heal wounds and sickness, and to neutralize poison. 

In mythology and heraldry unicorn symbolizes innocence, purity and feminine power. It is often seen as the counterpart of lion, which symbolizes the masculine virtues.

In some pictures unicorns also have goat's feet or a lion's tail.

In "On the Nature of Animals" ("Περὶ Ζῴων Ἰδιότητος", "De natura animalium"), Aelian, quoting Ctesias, adds that India has also a one-horned horse (iii. 41; iv. 52), and says (xvi. 20) that the "monoceros" () was sometimes called "cartazonos" (), which may be a kind of the Arabic "karkadann", meaning "rhinoceros".


</doc>
<doc id="18437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18437" title="Radium">
Radium

Radium is a chemical element with the atomic number 88 and symbol Ra on the periodic table. It was discovered by Marie Curie and Pierre Curie in the form of radium chloride in 1898. It is an almost pure-white alkaline earth metal, but when it is exposed to oxygen, it turns black quickly. All isotopes of radium are radioactive, and it glows faint blue because of this.

It's used in several things, like luminous watches, which are now banned because they can cause radiation poisoning.


</doc>
<doc id="18438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18438" title="Dhaka">
Dhaka

Dhaka is the capital city of Bangladesh. It was known as Dacca before 1982. It has a population of 12,560,000 (2005). It is also the largest city of Bangladesh.

Long ago it was part of the Mughal Empire of Hindustan. After that, it became a part of the British Raj. Then it became a part of Pakistan as part of the Partition of India on 15 August 1947. Bangladesh was then called East Pakistan, and Dacca (Dhaka) became provincial capital of East Pakistan. In 1971, the new nation of Bangladesh was created. Dacca became its capital city and changed its spelling in 1982.

After years of negotiations, the Dhaka-Agartala bus was agreed upon on July 11, 2001 to connect Bangladesh with its eastern neighbour, the Indian state of Tripura, which has a substantial Bengali population and indigenous peoples who have close commercial and cultural links with the people of eastern Bangladesh.


</doc>
<doc id="18439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18439" title="Darwin, Northern Territory">
Darwin, Northern Territory

Darwin is the territorial capital of the Northern Territory in Australia. The city has about 105,000 people living there. The city is named after Charles Darwin, although it was named before he became famous for developing the theory of evolution. A member of the crew of the ship that started a port there in 1839 named it Port Darwin in honor of Darwin, who had sailed on that same ship earlier. 
Most of Darwin has been built since 1974, when Cyclone Tracy ripped through and destroyed the city. Since then, the city has recovered. It is a very important port, because it is on the coast closest to Indonesia and the rest of Asia. Darwin also has a large military base. 

Darwin also has many Indigenous Australians living in the city, about 9.7% of the people.. This more than any other capital city of Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="18440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18440" title="Northern Territory">
Northern Territory

The Northern Territory is a territory of Australia. The capital city is Darwin. Other large towns in the Territory include Alice Springs, Katherine and Tenant Creek. 

The Northern Territory has large areas of desert. It has many important places such as "Uluru", or "Ayers Rock". The rock is sacred to the native people. 

Kakadu National Park is a World Heritage area. It has been lived in for more than 40,000 years. There are cave paintings, rock carvings and archaeological sites. These show the skills and way of life of the people who have lived there. It has includes different ecosystems, including tidal flats, floodplains, lowlands and rocky gorges. It provides a place to live for a wide range of rare types of plants and animals.

The floral emblem of the Northern Territory is Sturt's Desert Rose, Gossypium sturtianum . The flower is also featured on the Territory's flag. It was named after explorer Charles Sturt who found the plant in creeks near the site of Broken Hill, New South Wales in 1844.
The Fauna emblem is the Red Kangaroo.


</doc>
<doc id="18441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18441" title="Whiskey Rebellion">
Whiskey Rebellion

The Whiskey Rebellion was an event in the history of the United States. In 1794, some farmers in Pennsylvania rebelled against the government because of whiskey tax. Selling whiskey was how people traded things in Western Pennsylvania, so they thought the new tax was very unfair. The government under George Washington, with advice from Alexander Hamilton, quickly repressed the rebellion. Washington and Hamilton wanted to ensure that no one would question the power of the federal government, so they sent almost 13,000 troops to stop the rebellion of a few hundred farmers. That made the new government more solid, and the President more powerful.


</doc>
<doc id="18442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18442" title="Saginaw, Michigan">
Saginaw, Michigan

Saginaw is a city in mid-Michigan, USA, with about 70,000 people in the city as of the 2000 census. It is very cold there in the winter. It is near Bay City, Michigan.


</doc>
<doc id="18443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18443" title="Tom Cruise">
Tom Cruise

Tom Cruise (born July 3, 1962) is an American actor. He has starred in many movies, including "War of the Worlds" and "Jerry Maguire". He is a Scientologist. He is also famous for a couch-jumping incident on the Oprah Winfrey Show. Cruise has an adopted daughter and adopted son with his second wife Nicole Kidman. He has a daughter Suri, by his third wife Katie Holmes.


</doc>
<doc id="18446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18446" title="Orgy (band)">
Orgy (band)

Orgy is an American alternative metal band. They formed in 1997 in Los Angeles, California. The band's first hit was Blue Monday, which was a remake of a song by 1980s band New Order. The members of the band are: 


</doc>
<doc id="18448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18448" title="Magazine">
Magazine

A magazine is a type of book people read. Magazines are not like regular books. This is because a new version of the magazine is printed many times each year. Magazines are a type of periodical. They are called periodicals because new versions of them keep being printed. Magazines are printed on paper. People usually need to subscribe to them. An example of a magazine is "Time". There are magazines printed about many things. Magazines are similar to newspapers, but usually new versions take longer to make, they cost more money, and they are in color on every page. Also, sometimes magazines come with little gifts to reward the readers who buy it. 

A "magazine" can also mean a spring-loaded container for bullets used in modern guns.


</doc>
<doc id="18449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18449" title="Category:1942 movies">
Category:1942 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18450" title="Category:1967 movies">
Category:1967 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18451" title="Category:1992 movies">
Category:1992 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18452" title="Category:1938 movies">
Category:1938 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18453" title="Zombie">
Zombie

A zombie or zombi is a mythical dead person who has returned to life as a walking corpse (the living dead). Mythical things that have been "re-animated" are called undead. The Zombie myth came from the Caribbean.

Zombies have become very popular in horror movies. They are dead creatures that have been brought back to life by science or some spell, and eat the flesh or brain of living people.

A walking corpse, usually called "zombie", is the name to referred a person that has been long gone, but in a certain way, can walk, think (in some cases) and attack living persons, referring such as canibalism. A small part of the brain is still in function, the heart, lungs and all vital organs is remaining in order and the skeleton and muscles can do movement functions, as the skin is rotten, hair and nails falling apart, eyes drizzled, in a red/yellow living colors, blood and scars wide open,clothes ripped and with the five senses as feel, see, smell, tast and hear still capting small and tiny vibrations of the outside.

A Voodoo sorcerer or 'bokor' can bring dead people back to life. The now zombie is under the control of the sorcerer because zombies have no free will. The idea of this is that a zombie is a trapped human soul, and if a sorcerer can catch it, he becomes more powerful.

Wade Davis, a Canadian ethnobotanist (someone who studies what effect plants have on people), wrote about zombies in two books, The Serpent and the Rainbow (1985) and (1988). Davis went to Haiti in 1982 found out and wrote about how a living person can be turned into a zombie by two special powders being rubbed into a wound. The first powder brought a 'death-like' state because of a certain poison in it, called tetrodotoxin (the same deadly poison found in the Japanese blowfish). At just the right amount, it can make a person almost die, but not quite. The second powder, puts the person in a zombie-like state where they seem to have no will of their own.
Many people still do not believe what Davis wrote about, but in Haiti, lots of people recognized the "zombie drugs". This could mean that, while the drugs could have no physical effect on the person, the strong belief may psychologically make them into the zombie they expect (like the placebo effect).

In Mesopotamian mythology, Ishtar, the goddess of love and fertility once said in anger:

In the Middle Ages, many people believed that the souls of the dead could come back as ghosts and haunt the living, often because of a crime that the living person had committed.
Sometimes, the ghost could actually take on a physical shape and touch or attack things or people.

Zombies appear a lot in horror and fantasy films. The zombie that is normally seen is a mindless, clumsy corpse which eats human flesh. Zombies can not be called cannibals because they do not eat each other, only humans. The first zombie references appeared in the 1600s and have since appeared in lots of films and books.

In zombie films, zombies are almost always:




</doc>
<doc id="18454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18454" title="Category:1956 movies">
Category:1956 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18455" title="Orgy">
Orgy

In common use, an orgy is when more than two people have sex together, sometimes also called group sex.

"Orgy" could also mean any activity done without limits.

Originally, the word comes from Latin. There it referred to a feast (or a banquet) of a wealthy citizen. When the Romans ate they were almost lying down, and the food was brought to them by slaves. These slaves would also provide the entertainment which usually consited of music and dancing slaves.


</doc>
<doc id="18457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18457" title="Labradoodle">
Labradoodle

A Labradoodle is a mixed-breed dog, created by breeding a Labrador Retriever with a Poodle. Labradoodles are now bred worldwide.There are many variations of Labradoodles with the F1b being the most common and was created by St.Clair Labradoodle Kennelsby crossing an F1 Labradoodle back to a poodle.This is known as a "backcross" Labradoodle and improves the coat qualities of the breed.

Labradoodles are not a considered an official dog breed by most dog expert organizations, such as the Fédération Cynologique Internationale (FCI)although the American Kennel Club (AKC)has now created the 'Canine Partners"category to include the Labradoodle and other hybrid breeds for agility and other competitions.



</doc>
<doc id="18458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18458" title="Heilongjiang">
Heilongjiang

Heilongjiang is the northeastern-most province in China. It is bordered by Russia on the north and east. To the south is Jilin province, and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region lies to the west.

The capital and largest city is Harbin. There had been a considerable foreign population in the region, particularly in Harbin, by first the Russians in the late 19th century, and then the Japanese in the 20th century.

The terrain consists largely of plains and rolling hills, with relatively few low mountainous areas. The climate is fairly dry with quite cold winters. There are some famous winter "ice festivals" with elaborate snow and ice sculptures.

Heilongjiang Province is divided into 12 municipalities and 1 prefecture.



</doc>
<doc id="18459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18459" title="Jilin">
Jilin

Jilin is one of 3 provinces in the far northeastern part of China. It is bordered on the north by Heilongjiang province, to the west by the "Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region" (_____), and to the southwest by Liaoning province. To the east lies North Korea.

The capital city of Jilin is Changchun (meaning "long spring").

The terrain and climate are much like that of neighboring Heilongjiang province. Also like its neighboring provinces, one of the main agricultural products is corn, as the climate is too cold (and dry) for satisfactory rice cultivation.


</doc>
<doc id="18460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18460" title="Liaoning">
Liaoning

Liaoning is a northeastern province of the People's Republic of China. The capital city of Liaoning province is Shenyang. 

Liaoning province is the south of the 3 provinces which, together with the "Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region", form the entire northeastern part of China.
It is bordered on the northeast by Jilin province, and has a coastline along the Yellow Sea to the southeast. Hebei province and Beijing within Hebei lie to the southwest. 

Dalian is a major port city at the southern tip of a peninsula which juts about 100km south into the Yellow Sea.


</doc>
<doc id="18471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18471" title="Basin">
Basin

A basin can be any thing or place that water or other things are held in by gravity.


</doc>
<doc id="18472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18472" title="Blade">
Blade

A blade is the flat, sharp part of a tool or weapon used to cut or stab, such as a knife or sword. Most blades have handles. Blades can be used to stab, cut, or separate things. It can also be the top part of grass or the leaf of a plant. Blades come in all different sizes and shapes, sharpness and materials.


</doc>
<doc id="18477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18477" title="Category:Disambiguation">
Category:Disambiguation

Please do not add articles directly to this category; use instead.


</doc>
<doc id="18479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18479" title="Key">
Key

A key is an object used to open and close things, for example, doors. Keys are also used to turn on cars, machines and other things.

A key is used by placing the key into the slot of the thing you want to unlock. 

The key was likely invented by Theodore of Samos in 6th Century BC.


</doc>
<doc id="18480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18480" title="Rat">
Rat

The rat is a small rodent. Rats are omnivores, they eat anything they find that remotely looks like food. Most rats are in the genus "Rattus". There are about 56 different species of rats. 

The best known rats are the Black rat ("Rattus rattus"), and the Brown rat ("Rattus norvegicus"). These two are known as "Old World Rats". The group has its origins in Asia. Most rats are much bigger than their close relatives, the Old World mice. In the wild they very rarely weigh more than 500 grams though. 

Usually rats are bigger than mice. Rats are large muroid rodents, mice are small ones. The muroid family is very large and complex. That means that the terms "rat" and "mouse" are not specific in a taxonomic way: If a large muroid is discovered, it will often have "rat" in its name, if it is small, it will often be called "mouse" - this does not mean, however that the animals discovered will be part of the genus "rattus" (for rats) or "mus" for mice. Examples that illustrate this are the Pack rat and the Cotton mouse.

Some people keep rats as a pet. They are called fancy rats. Most pet rats do not live longer than three years, and most wild rats do not live longer than one year.

Other mammals are called "rat" by many people, but those are not true rats, many are unrelated to the true Old World rat. Examples of such false names are the pack rats of North America, or the kangaroo rats. Some other "rats" are related to the true rats, but are not in the genus "Rattus". Such an example is the Bandicoot rat. Such problem cases are very few in number. Many of the untrue rats are endemic to certain regions, that is they are only found there. Very often, they live on islands. In many cases, these species are also endangered of disappearing. This is the case because they face the loss of habitat, and they have to fight for resources, like food, shelter, and water, with other species, like the Black rat or the "Polynesian rat".

People keep some types of rats as pets called "fancy rats". Fancy rats are domesticated brown rats. People have kept rats as pets since the 19th century.Rats are social and smart animals that can be trained. They also like to play with toys. Male pet rats are more playful then female pet rats, but are also more aggressive. Pet rats do not act the same as wild rats. They do not have more diseases than other common pets.

Pet rats live 2 to 3 1/2 years. Female rats are smaller than male rats, and female rats are more active. Male rats often have a stronger bond with their owner than female rats. Pet rats have been known to "laugh" when tickled. They can be all one color or have spots or other coloring. Some rats have no hair. These are called hairless rats.

Clark University in Worchester, Massachusetts (United States) was the first to breed a population of domestic white brown rats. They did this to study the effects of diets, amongst other things.

Since then, rats have been used in many experiments. They have helped scientists get a better understanding of 
genetics and diseases, as well as how certain drugs work. 

Laboratory rats have also proved valuable in psychological studies of learning and other mental processes (Barnett, 2002). A 2007 study found rats to possess metacognition, a mental ability previously only documented in humans and some primates.

Domestic rats are very different from wild rats, however. They are calmer and less likely to bite; they can tolerate greater crowding; they breed earlier and produce more offspring; and their brains, livers, kidneys, adrenal glands, and hearts are smaller (Barnett 2002).

Brown rats are often used as model organisms. Genetic research is usually done with mice, though. Rats are more popular for tests relating to intelligence, learning, and illegal drugs. This is mostly because rats have a high intelligence, ingenuity, aggressiveness, and adaptability. Their psychology seems to be very similar to human psychology. Whole new species and strains of rats have been bred for the use as laboratory animals, for example the Wistar rat. Much of the genome of "Rattus norvegicus" has been sequenced.
Rats are "opportunists". If they have the choice between a food that will need a fight to get, and another food that will not, they take the food that does not need a fight. For this reason, rats have lived close to humans for a long time. Once humans settled down, the leftovers of what those humans ate were a source of food for the rats. So the rats followed.

Rats are present in almost all settlements. In cities, they often live in the sewers.

Many scientiests believe that the Bubonic plague was spread through fleas on rats. That form of plague is spread by the microorganism (or germ) Yersinia pestis, which lives on rat fleas. These fleas preyed on rats ("Rattus rattus"). Those rats lived in the European cities of the day. The rats themselves died of the plague. Some scientists believe that the plague spread faster than the rats. Therefore, the rats cannot be the prime carrier. More research is needed. People believe this disease was the Black Death. It killed nearly a third of the population of Europe, in many epidemics in the Middle Ages.

Rats can carry diseases. Many times, rats living in poor conditions have problems with parasites themselves. Few of those diseases can spread to humans though. One of those is called Leptospirosis, another one is the plague.





</doc>
<doc id="18481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18481" title="Branch">
Branch

Branch is the part of a tree from which leaves grow. 



</doc>
<doc id="18482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18482" title="Spoon">
Spoon

A spoon is a tool for eating. It is usually used for eating foods that are like liquids (like soup and yogurt), and it can also be used for stirring. Humans use spoons every day. Spoons are mostly useful for eating liquids, such as soup, although some solids (like cereal and ice cream) are also usually eaten with spoons.

There are many different types of spoons. There are dessert spoons, soup spoons, baby spoons, teaspoons, tablespoons and others. There are also spoons that are collector items and are worth a lot of money. Some musicians even use two spoons as a musical instrument like a castanet.

Spoons have been used as tools for eating since Paleolithic times. Prehistoric peoples probably used shells, or small pieces of wood as spoons. Both the Greek and Latin words for spoon come from the word "cochlea", which is a spiral-shaped snail shell. The Anglo-Saxon word "spon", means a chip or splinter of wood.


</doc>
<doc id="18497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18497" title="Cutlery">
Cutlery

Cutlery are tools used for preparing, serving and eating food. The most common types of cutlery are knives, spoons and forks. 

The best quality cutlery is often made of silver, though steel is often used. In a restaurant, they are often served wrapped in a cloth napkin (serviette). Plastic cutlery is used for eating fast food, because it can be thrown away. 

In the United States, these are more often called "utensils". They are also often called "silverware", even when they are not made of silver.


</doc>
<doc id="18498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18498" title="Vase">
Vase

A vase is a container, often used for flowers. They can be made from a number of materials, including glass and ceramics. Many vases are decorated or painted but some are left plain. It sometimes is used for decorations in American and Chinese homes. It can be a big part of culture in many countries.


</doc>
<doc id="18499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18499" title="Yemen">
Yemen

The Republic of Yemen or Yemen is a nation in the Middle East, composed of former North Yemen and South Yemen, in the south of the Arabian Peninsula. It borders Saudi Arabia and Oman on the north and the east. To the south is the Arabian Sea, and to the west is the Red Sea. Yemen owns the island of Socotra (217 miles) to the south off the coast of East Africa. A person or thing from Yemen is called "Yemeni". Yemen's capital city is Sana'a.

Yemen is the origin land of all Arabs in the Middle East. In ancient times, Yemen was an important center of trade and power. Many powerful kingdoms were in Yemen, including the Sabaeans. Yemen was important in the trade of spices as well. It was known to the ancient Romans as "Arabia Felix" ("Happy Arabia" in Latin). They called it Happy Arabia because the area was so beautiful and powerful.

In the 700s, Yemenis were among the first to join the new religion Islam. Since then, Yemenis have been staunch Muslims who were in the forefront of all Islam conquests and Yemenis were the rulers of Islamic Spain for more than 800 years.

Today, Yemen has over 20 million people. Most of them speak Arabic.


</doc>
<doc id="18501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18501" title="Category:Italian football clubs">
Category:Italian football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18503" title="Template:Senses">
Template:Senses


</doc>
<doc id="18504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18504" title="Sensory system">
Sensory system

The sensory system controls the senses. 
People say the sensory system has five senses:

People get information about what is around them from their senses. 


</doc>
<doc id="18505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18505" title="Category:Cricket clubs">
Category:Cricket clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18508" title="Nikola Tesla">
Nikola Tesla

Nikola Tesla (July 10, 1856 c. January 7, 1943; Serbian Cyrillic: Никола Тесла) was a Serbian inventor, physicist, mechanical engineer, and electrical engineer. He was born in Smiljan, in the part of former Austria-Hungary that is now the Republic of Croatia. He later became an American citizen.

Tesla invented an early form of the radio. His main discoveries were in the fields of magnetism and electricity. He is best known for his contributions that led to the development of alternating current, following the "Current War" against direct current. The advantage that popularized alternating current is that less of it is lost when the current is transmitted over long distances. 

The SI unit measuring magnetic flux density or magnetic induction (commonly known as the magnetic field formula_1), the tesla, was named in his honor. He also invented several forms of oscillators.

Tesla died in room 3327 of the New Yorker Hotel on January 7, 1943. Tesla got his first job in Budapest, working at a telephone company. Even in his early life, he was inventing things. He invented a loudspeaker for telephones. Tesla also had mental problems starting from an early age, suffering from obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Tesla was born on July 10, 1856, in Smiljan, Austrian Empire. Tesla's father was a priest in the Serbian Orthodox Church, and his mother was a housewife. he was the fourth kid out of five, with one older brother, Dane, two older sisters, Angelina and Milka, and one younger sister, Marcia.



</doc>
<doc id="18510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18510" title="Scene">
Scene

Scene can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="18518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18518" title="Inspector Gadget">
Inspector Gadget

Inspector Gadget is a syndicated television cartoon that ran from 1983 to 1986. It was the first show produced by DIC Entertainment.

Elements of the franchise pay homage to the 1960s series "Get Smart", Gadget's voice was even provided by Don Adams who was the star of Get Smart. Other elements are homages to things like Inspector Clouseau from the "Pink Panther" movie series. On the series, Inspector Gadget is a cyborg or andriod detective and secret agent, who must stop an evil organization called MAD lead by Dr. Claw. He is usually helped by his niece, Penny and his dog, Brain. Gadget has many gadgets and special devices inside his body which he uses, but not very well and he is not very smart, but he usually with the help of Penny and Brain, ends up saving the day.

In 1999, Matthew Broderick played the title character in Disney's live-action adaptation.


</doc>
<doc id="18519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18519" title="Syndicated">
Syndicated

Syndicated means television program being shown on a different television network than the one that first showed the program. A syndicated program can also be a program that was not made for a television network. These types of programs are made and then sold to many different television stations to be shown.

There are different types of syndication:




</doc>
<doc id="18520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18520" title="Cartoon">
Cartoon

A cartoon is a drawing. The word "cartoon" has been used in several different ways. 

The oldest meaning is a drawing that is a full-sized design for a finished artwork. The cartoon might be a drawing for a painting that was going to be put onto a wall or ceiling in fresco. The cartoon would be pinned against the wall and its design marked onto the plastered of the wall. Cartoons were also made to design tapestry. The most famous cartons are a set by Raphael which show the "Life of St Peter". The cartoons are in the Victoria & Albert Museum. The finished tapestries belong to the Vatican and were made for the Sistine Chapel.

In the 1700s, artists such as William Hogarth often made sets of humorous (funny) drawings that were about political subjects, such as poverty, elections, war and riots. The drawings were made into prints and were sold cheaply. These prints were not called cartoons at that time, but they led to the idea of modern political cartoons in newspapers. 

Nowadays many newspapers publish a different political cartoon in the paper, every day. The word "cartoon" was first used in this way in 1843 in an English magazine called "Punch". 

A political cartoon does not always show people. Sometimes it may show a country as a person, an animal, a monster or a baby. For example, Britain might be shown as a woman holding a baby Australia in her arms. Russia might be shown as a bear. The United States might be shown as a Bald Eagle.

Political cartoons often showed real politicians or other famous people. One way to make these characters easy to recognise was to make some of their features bigger or smaller. So, if a politician had a round nose and a big chin, then the artist would make the nose rounder and the chin bigger. There are many modern cartoon artists who do "portait cartoons" or "charicatures".

Political cartoons were often drawn to show several different stages of the same story. Many of Hogarth's famous political cartoons do this. From this came the idea of telling funny stories in a series of pictures. Comic strips are a type of "cartoon" that is published in newspapers, but they are usually just called "comic strips". Some of the earliest comic strips are The Katzenjammer Kids (1897) and Ginger Meggs (1921). Sometimes they represent animals like Garfield. Later comic strips from the 1950s onwards show superheros such as Superman and The Phantom. 

Comic strips posted on the internet are web comics. While most web comics look just like comic strips, many web comics use the new technology of the internet. Some use animation and sound for special effects. Some web comics take up much more space than newspapers want to print, and most offer a large collection of earlier strips for new readers, so longer stories can be told. Many webcomics are published (shown to people) by independent artists.


From the beginning of the movie industry, some artists began experimenting with making drawings that seemed to move. These moving drawings also became known as "cartoons". They often depict animals rather than humans. They were often just for fun, but sometimes, particularly during World War II, were used for political reasons, just like the cartoons in newspapers. Walt Disney and Warner Bros both made famous cartoons. Famous cartoon characters are Felix the Cat (1922), Mickey Mouse (1928), Bugs Bunny (1940) and Popeye(1929). 

At first, movie cartoons were quite short. When a person bought a movie ticket, they would see a news program, two or three cartoons in black and white and a movie. Walt Disney then got the clever idea of telling a long story as a "cartoon". The first one that he made was Snow White and the Seven Dwarves (1937). Movie cartoons soon became a popular type of entertainment. Modern movie cartoons are sometimes created using computer graphics, rather than hand-drawn cartoons. They include Toy Story (1995) and Shrek (2001).



</doc>
<doc id="18527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18527" title="Square root">
Square root

A square root of a number is a number that, when it is squared (multiplied by itself), gives the first number again. For example, 2 is the square root of 4, because 2×2=4. Only numbers bigger than or equal to zero have real square roots. A number bigger than zero has two square roots: one is positive (bigger than zero) and the other is negative (smaller than zero). For example, 4 has two square roots: 2 and -2. The only square root of zero is zero.

Square roots of negative numbers are not real numbers - they are imaginary numbers. Every complex number except 0 has 2 square roots. For example: -1 has two square roots. We call them formula_1 and formula_2.

The sign for a square root is made by putting a bent line over a number, like this: formula_3. We say "the square root of 4" (or whatever number we are taking the square root of).

A whole number with a square root that is also a whole number is called a perfect square. The first few perfect squares are: 0, 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81, 100, 121, 144, 169, 196, 225...

It is not really known where the square root symbol formula_4 comes from, but some people believe that it was from the letter "r", which is the first letter of the Latin and German word "radix". Radix means square root.


</doc>
<doc id="18528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18528" title="Negative number">
Negative number

A negative number is a number that indicates an opposite. If a positive number is distance above sea level, then a negative number is distance below sea level. If a positive number is distance up, then a negative number is distance down. If a positive number is distance to the right, then a negative number is distance to the left. If a positive number is a deposit to a bank account, then a negative number is a withdrawal from that bank account. if a positive number is number of minutes in the future, then a negative number is number of minutes in the past. If a positive number means addition, then a negative number means subtraction. 

The numbers you are most familiar with, the counting numbers 1, 2, 3, and so on, are all positive numbers. The positive numbers, negative numbers, and the number zero, taken together, are called "signed numbers". The signed whole numbers are called integers.

The number zero is neither positive nor negative. Zero is its own opposite, so +0 = −0. That is, zero steps to the right is the same as zero steps to the left.

A negative number is said to be less than zero.

A negative number is written by putting a minus sign, "−", in front of a positive number. For example, "−3" is a negative number. It is read "negative three" or "minus three" and it means the opposite of 3.

Negative numbers are left of zero on a number line. A number and its opposite are always the same distance from zero. The negative number −3 is just as far to the left of zero as 3 is to the right of zero:

Sometimes, for emphasis, we write the pair of opposite number as −3 and +3.

A number and its opposite always add to zero. The sum of −3 and +3 is 0. We can write this either as −3 + 3 = 0 or as 3 − 3 = 0. In addition, a number and its opposite are said to "cancel each other out".

 9 + (−1) = 9 − 1 = 8
 6 − (−8) = 6 + 8 = 14
 (−3) × (−2) = 3 × 2 = 6
 (−4) × 5 = −(4 × 5) = −20

When a person or company is in debt, people sometimes say they have a negative amount of money. Negative numbers are used in accounting and science.



</doc>
<doc id="18530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18530" title="Hail">
Hail

A piece of hail (called a hailstone) is a lump of ice that falls out of a storm cloud. About 5,000 hailstorms a year in the United States of America make hail 3/4 of an inch or bigger.

A hailstone begins as a small water drop or a round snow in a cloud. The drop grows by collecting many cloud drops. The little drop is blown by a strong wind inside the cloud to where it meets with some "supercooled" (extremely cold) water drops. These supercooled drops are still liquid water even though the temperature is below freezing. When the little drop with these supercooled drops, they join, and the little drop has now become a hailstone.

The little hailstone is thrown up inside the cloud, still collecting other supercooled drops. The hailstone gets bigger and bigger until it goes to the top of the cloud. Then, because there is no more wind, it falls back down through the cloud. While it is falling it gets even bigger as it bangs into more supercooled drops. If it goes down very fast it can hit the earth at up to 90 mph (144 kph), bouncing like popcorn. If the hailstone hits dirt, it can actually bury itself.

The biggest hailstone recorded in the United States weighed 1.67 pounds (0.75 kg), and was 5.5 inches (14 cm) across. It fell near Coffeyville, Kansas, on September 3, 1970. The biggest recorded hailstone in the "world" was 4.2 pounds (almost 2 kilograms). It fell in Kazakhstan in Asia.

Hailstones are made of many rings of clear, cloudy ice. The rings show different amounts of freezing on the hailstone. The cloudy ice is because it freezes so quickly, trapping many small air bubbles. The clear rings are made by slow freezing of the water, which lets bubbles escape.

Hail does a very great amount of damage every year. Even small hail with strong winds can crush a field of wheat flat in a few minutes. It sometimes breaks windows, and can dent cars and roofs. Big hailstones can hurt and even kill small animals.

Because hail damages crops, there has been many efforts to stop hail. In the 16th century, farmers used to shoot cannons at thunderstorms, thinking this would destroy the hail. Cloud seeding (trying to make rain by putting dry ice crystals or a kind of smoke in clouds) is the more recent way, but it is expensive and we do not know for sure how well it works. To this day, there is no proved way of stopping hailstorms.



</doc>
<doc id="18531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18531" title="Academy Award">
Academy Award

The Academy Awards, commonly known as the Oscars, are the best-known movie awards in the United States. The awards have been given by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences since 1929. Right now, the awards ceremony takes place in January at the Kodak Theater in Hollywood.




</doc>
<doc id="18533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533" title="Brake">
Brake

A brake is a device for slowing or stopping a moving machine part. The most common brakes are for wheels, such as car wheels and bicycle wheels.


</doc>
<doc id="18534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18534" title="Bucket">
Bucket

A bucket is a container with a wide open top and a handle that is mainly used for carrying liquids. In some cases, solids may also be carried in a bucket (like sand which is hard to carry in your hands).

Some buckets are used for work, and some more for leisure, as seen here . A bucket used for work is often made of a strong material such as iron or steel and is used for functions such as carrying coal or soil. A bucket used for leisure, e.g. for making sandcastles, is normally made of plastic.

In rare cases, a bucket may be worn as a piece of clothing, people may wear a bucket on their heads for humorous reasons. Buckethead is a famous example of this.


</doc>
<doc id="18536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18536" title="Lightbulb">
Lightbulb

A lightbulb (or light bulb, light globe, electric lamp, or just bulb) is a device that produces light from electricity when it is turned on. It can be a part of a bigger lighting device, such as a lamp. 

Light bulbs are often used to bring light to a space. They can also be used to show information. For example, many electronic devices have a small bulb that shines to show when the device is on. Cars have signal lights to show which way they are turning.

Before electricity became available in the late 1800s, people used candles and oil lamps for light. Lightbulbs were invented earlier that century, but improvements by Thomas Edison made them practical for use at that time. Some people still use oil and lamps, because they do not have electricity.

There are three basic kinds of light bulbs: incandescent, fluorescent and light-emitting diodes. In some places, the word "lightbulb" only means the incandescent kind. 

The incandescent light bulb turns electricity into light by passing the electric current through a thin tungsten wire called a "filament". The resistance of the filament heats the bulb up. Eventually the temperature of the filament rises so high that it glows. Incandescent bulbs are filled with a gas, often a noble gas like neon or argon, to help them last longer.

In fluorescent bulbs, the electricity passes through gases. Fluorescent lightbulbs are more efficient, because they use less electricity than incandescent bulbs and also last longer. Fluorescent lightbulbs are often tube-shaped. Electricity passes from the positive end of the tube to the negative end through the gas. When the electrons hits a gas molecule, the molecule gives off a photon. The photons hit the wall of the bulb which is has a layer of substances that glow when hit by photons, making light. Changing the mixture in this layer can change the exact color of the light made by the bulb. (Some mixtures make a pink-white colored light, and others make a blue-white colored light.)

Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) are a semiconductor light source. LEDs are used as indicator lamps in many devices and are also becoming more common in other types of lights. LED bulbs last much longer than either incandescent or fluorescent bulbs.

An LED is made of a chip of semiconducting material doped with impurities to create a p-n junction. Like in any other diode, electric current flows easily from one side (the p-side or anode), to the other (the n-side, or cathode), but not the other way. Charge-carriers (both electrons and holes) flow into the junction from electrodes with different voltages. When an electron meets a hole, it falls into a lower energy level, and releases energy in the form of a photon.

Most lightbulbs fit into a socket. Sometimes they are screwed in, other times they fit in the socket through a bayonet action, where they are pushed and twisted into the socket and held in place by two small pins on the bulb. When they break, they must be replaced carefully. They get very hot when they are turned on, and take some time to cool off. There is a danger of electric shock from touching the socket.

Most lightbulbs are made of glass, which means that they are fragile and break easily. In incandescent lightbulbs, the filament eventually will sublimate and break, and the bulb will stop working. Because of this, lightbulbs may need to be replaced more often than the rest of the device.



</doc>
<doc id="18537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18537" title="Grammy Award">
Grammy Award

The Grammy Awards (first named the Gramophone Awards and often called just Grammys), are awards given yearly by the Recording Academy (an association of Americans professionally involved in the recorded music industry) for outstanding work in the music and spoken recording industry. The Grammys have 108 categories with 30 genres. The Grammys are awarded once each year and are a major televised event.

The name "Grammy" comes from the word "gramophone". A gramophone was an old machine that played music on records.



</doc>
<doc id="18540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18540" title="Emmy Award">
Emmy Award

The Emmy Awards are United States television production awards which are given out each year. They are the television version of the Academy Awards. The first Emmy Awards were given out on January 25, 1949 at the Hollywood Athletic Club. Shirley Dinsdale was the very first person to be given an Emmy in the first awards ceremony. 

Three organizations give Emmy Awards:

The best-known of the awards are the Primetime Awards (some of which are named "Creative Arts Emmys") and the Daytime Emmy Awards.

The Emmy Awards is a statuette of a woman with wings holding an atom. It was created by television engineer Louis McManus, using his wife as a model. The trophies are made by a company that has a manufacturing site at the El Dorado Correctional Facility, a prison in El Dorado, Kansas. 



</doc>
<doc id="18544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18544" title="Maggie Simpson">
Maggie Simpson

Margaret "Maggie" Simpson is a fictional character shown in the animated television series "The Simpsons". She is a baby.

Like most babies, Maggie copies what she sees around her. She once hit Homer on the head with a mallet, shot a suction dart at his picture and attacked him with a pencil in imitation of "Itchy and Scratchy". Maggie is also very accurate with a gun, she shot Mr.Burns in "Who Shot Mr. Burns". 

During the early episodes, Maggie's well-known feature would be to trip over her clothes and fall on her face causing a loud smack on the floor. Throughout the early episodes, Maggie fell down 39 times.

Maggie was named after Matt Groening's sister Maggie Groening. She often sucked on a pacifier and wore a sleep suit like Maggie. Groening thought that it would be funny to have a baby character that did not talk and never grew up, but showed any emotions that the scene needed.

With few exceptions, Maggie never speaks but is aware of what is going around her. Maggie has spoken in "Good Night", the first cartoon to air on "The Tracey Ullman Show". When the rest of the family falls asleep, she speaks and her voice is played by Liz Georges.

Maggie's first word spoken in the normal television show of the series happened in "Lisa's First Word", when she was voiced by Elizabeth Taylor and says "Daddy" in an empty room. Elizabeth Taylor as Maggie was later named the 13th greatest guest spot in the history of the show. James Earl Jones, who voiced Maggie in Treehouse of Horror V, was in seventh place. She would later have small sentences in Treehouse of Horror IX, voiced by Harry Shearer, who used his Kang voice. Her squeaks and occasional speaking parts are regularly done by Nancy Cartwright or Yeardley Smith.



</doc>
<doc id="18545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18545" title="Marge Simpson">
Marge Simpson

Marjorie "Marge" Simpson is a character in the animated television series "The Simpsons". The characters voice is done by Julie Kavner. Marge is the wife of Homer Simpson and the mother of Bart, Lisa, and Maggie Simpson. She is famous for her very tall blue hair, that is shaped into a beehive. She also is proud to have never met anyone with taller hair outside Graceland. Marge was named after, and loosely based on, Margaret "Marge" Groening, Matt Groening's mother.

Marge’s image is normally that of a stereotypical sitcom mother who is sometimes seen as an inexperienced person and easy to be fooled. Despite having higher morals than most other characters, Marge has had her fair share of wild escapades throughout the show’s history. She was once a police officer in Springfield, took treatment for road rage, was once sent to jail for shoplifting, became a gambling fanatic, showed alcoholism, was an unwilling participant in a cross-country police chase, took steroids, cheated on a cooking competition and developed amnesia. She is also known for her persistent nagging and groaning. These are just some of the strange situations in which Marge has found herself. She also displays a surprisingly strong will. Marge is the only member of the family who normally tries to encourage the family to go to church. She also appears to have significant athletic ability in times of imminent danger. She can speak two languages fluently, one being English and the other in French.

Politically, Marge supports the Democratic Party. She once says that she voted for Jimmy Carter ("twice" according to Lisa), supported the candidacy of their state's governor Mary Bailey, and also stated to have been really depressed when Lyndon Johnson died.
Marge studied to be a painter. When she was a teenager she had an huge crush on Ringo Starr and painted a large number of portraits of him. She also wrote to him, but only received a reply 25 years later. His response inspired her to enter an art contest. Her portrait of a drunk Homer sleeping on the couch won the competition. She was then hired by Mr. Burns to do a portrait of him. The resulting portrait won even Mr. Burns’ praise, a massive feat in itself.

Marge also is a very skilled cook. She once started a pretzel business, which succeeded with the help of the Springfield Mafia. She has entered different cooking challenges, although situations such as cruel and ruthless competitors and overheated ovens made her to lose and even break or destroy the other competitors too. In general, she is shown as a very good cook. She is especially well-known for her pork chops, Homer's favorite dish.

In some episodes Marge is shown being a fairly skilled photographer until she decided to choose Homer over photography.

As a teen, Marge had her hair long to at waist length which she always wore down, but got the idea to wear it in her trademark beehive for senior prom in the episode . In the , her hair is shown close to her knees, meaning that a lot of hair would be needed to create her tall beehive. Marge has admitted that her hair is not really blue but is, in fact, gray. It was revealed by Homer in that Marge dyes her hair with blue dye #56; ""She’s been gray as a mule since she was seventeen."" However, it is shown in the episode "Fear of Flying" that Marge's blue hair goes back to when she was a small child. Because of her unusually large hairstyle, her height is reported to be 8'6", as noted by Apu in the episode "Marge in Chains". In "The Way We Weren't", her hair was blue before she met Homer and was dark at one time because of Marge ironing a piece of her hair for a long time. In "The Simpsons" Season Four DVD commentary, Matt Groening states that the original idea behind Marge's hair was to hide large rabbit ears. The gag was intended to be revealed in the final episode of the series, but was cancelled early on because of its irregularity.

Like most of the other Simpsons characters, Marge's age changes from time to time throughout the show's history. In first-season episodes "Life on the Fast Lane" and "Some Enchanted Evening", Marge is said to be 34 years old, but her age was later changed to 38, possibly because she and Homer attended their twentieth anniversary high-school reunion in one episode. In the episode "Regarding Margie", Homer states that Marge is his age, meaning she could be anywhere between 36 and 40 years in age.


</doc>
<doc id="18546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18546" title="Pin">
Pin

A pin is an object used to attach something to a surface. It is usually metal or plastic. Pins are usually sharp and are cheap to buy.

It is also a short numerical code used as a password for various accounts, commonly bank accounts.



</doc>
<doc id="18547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18547" title="Dining room">
Dining room

A dining room is a room used for eating and is usually near the kitchen. This is to make serving food easier.

Usually a dining room will contain a table with a set of chairs, normally positioned at the sides and end of a table. People often only use their dining rooms now for formal occasions and eating in the kitchen has become more popular.


</doc>
<doc id="18549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18549" title="Crown">
Crown

A crown is a type of headdress worn by a monarch. They are usually worn when they are crowned or at important occasions. Also, crowns are now used as a symbol of the monarchy.

Some children, mainly girls, connect flowers in a chain and wear them on their heads as if they were crowns. These are called "daisy chains" and have nothing at all to do with crowns. A crown can also be a part of the head.


</doc>
<doc id="18551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18551" title="Rudolf Hess">
Rudolf Hess

Walter Richard Rudolf Hess (Heß in German) (26 April 1894 – 17 August 1987) was a high ranking Nazi leader, and one of Adolf Hitler's closest men. He was the third man after Hermann Göring in the Third Reich.

Rudolf Hess was born in Alexandria, Egypt, but moved back to Germany in 1908.

He joined the army in World War I and was trained as a pilot. He flew to Scotland during World War II and was arrested. After the war he was tried at the Nuremberg Trials, and sentenced to life imprisonment.

He died in the Allied Military Prison, Spandau, Berlin in 1987. Since 1966 he had been the only prisoner. His death was caused by a strangulation cord; officials recorded it as a suicide.


</doc>
<doc id="18552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18552" title="1780s">
1780s






</doc>
<doc id="18553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18553" title="1510s">
1510s





</doc>
<doc id="18554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18554" title="Quantum entanglement">
Quantum entanglement

Quantum entanglement is the name given to the things that a pair of particles do.

Sometimes, two particles will act together and become a system. They behave like one object, but remain two separate objects. It is as if they now sit on the same teeter-totter seesaw. No matter how long the seesaw is, even if it is one million miles long, if one end is down the other end must be up, and this happens instantly. 
Even though each particle can tell what the other is doing, they do not send messages back and forth. There are no messages between the particles saying, "I'm going down, therefore, you must go up" and waiting for the particle to receive the message. Yet, the particles are always connected and can behave as one.
Quantum Entanglement is one of the concepts that led Albert Einstein to dislike the theory of Quantum Mechanics. Along with his colleagues, Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen, Einstein used entanglement to try to disprove quantum mechanics. Einstein called entanglement "spooky action at a distance". He tried to show that this weird effect is only a mistake in the math and in the future it will be taken care of with extra "hidden" variables. Years later, however, John Bell proved with his theorem that entanglement is real and actually happens to tiny particles.

Although one can change a particle to try and cause a change in its partner particle, it is impossible to control how this change will end up. In other words, changing one particle will change its partner particle, but it is impossible to choose exactly which way you want to influence them. Because we cannot control how the changes between entangled particles occur, it is impossible to use quantum entanglement to send messages. 


</doc>
<doc id="18555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18555" title="Amin Maalouf">
Amin Maalouf

Amin Maalouf is a Lebanese author. He was born on 25 February, 1949 in Beirut, Lebanon. He studied sociology at the French University in Beirut. He was the director of the Beirut daily newspaper "an-Nahar". But, he left the country 1975 at the start of the Lebanese Civil War. He moved to Paris and still lives there today.

Maalouf writes in French, and his works have been translated into many languages. He received the Prix Goncourt in 1993 for his book "Rock of Tanios".

He uses his experiences of civil war and migration in writing his novels. The characters in his novels are wanderers. They may not have just one home country, language, or religions.





</doc>
<doc id="18556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18556" title="Bulb">
Bulb

A bulb is the part of some plants, mostly under the dirt, that stores food while the plant is resting from growing (a "storage organ").

Some well-known bulbs people grow to use as food are onions and garlic. Some bulbs grown for the decorative flowers are the lily, tulip, and some irises.

Some plant storage organs that are similar to bulbs, but have different names are, tubers, corms (swollen stems), tuberous roots, and pseudobulbs.


</doc>
<doc id="18561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18561" title="1520s">
1520s





</doc>
<doc id="18563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18563" title="Wave">
Wave

Wave has several meanings, most of which relate to repeating changes:



</doc>
<doc id="18565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18565" title="Gluon">
Gluon

Gluons are what hold quarks together to make bigger particles. Gluons carry the strong force between other quarks, so it is considered a force carrying particle. Photons do the same thing, but for the electromagnetic force. Also, like photons, gluons are spin-1 particles, and when a particle has spin-1 it is considered a boson.

Gluons are hard to study because although they exist in nature all the time, they are so small and require so much energy to break them away from quarks (about 2 trillion degrees) that scientists have only been able to find more about them from the Large Hadron Collider at CERN.


</doc>
<doc id="18567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18567" title="Humphry Davy">
Humphry Davy

Sir Humphry Davy, 1st Baronet, FRS (Fellow of the Royal Society) (born 17 December 1778 in Penzance, Cornwall, England; died 29 May 1829 in Geneva City, Switzerland), was a chemist whose study of electrochemistry led to the first pure forms of some of the chemical elements such as potassium and sodium.


</doc>
<doc id="18569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18569" title="Myxobolus cerebralis">
Myxobolus cerebralis

Myxobolus cerebralis is a small Myxozoan parasite that eats the insides of fish like salmon and trout, causing whirling disease. 

This is a problem in fish farming and also in natural fish groups. In the last 100 years, it has spread to most of Europe (including Russia), the United States, South Africa, and other countries. In the 1980s, people found out that "M. cerebralis" needs to live in a worm before it can live in a fish. It infects both the fish and the worm by poking a hole in them and putting part of itself in.

Whirling disease hurts young fish the most, and can hurt bones and nerves. Fish with the disease do not swim very well, and they "whirl" or spin instead of swimming straight. This makes it hard for the fish to get food and get away from danger. Dealing with "M. cerebralis" costs more money than most other parasites in its group (which are called "myxozoans"). People do not get sick with whirling disease, though; only fish do.

At first, people thought that this parasite infected fish brains, so they named it "cerebralis", which means brain-related. Then, people found out that it mostly infects cartilage and bones. They tried to change the name, but they could not. Later, they found out that other creatures called "Triactinomyxon dubium" and "T. gyrosalmo"were actually stages of "M. cerebralis." It would be like finding out that caterpillars are really young butterflies even though they look very different.

Many scientists think of Myxozoans like "M. cerebralis", as animals, but books still call them protozoans. Peopole are not sure what it's related to. Under a microscope, they look a lot like Cnidarians like jellyfish, but the scientists that look at chemicals and genes think that it's closer to other animals called Bilaterians..

"M. cerebralis" has many stages ranging from single cells to bigger spores. Scientists have not studied all the stages very well yet. 

The kind of "M. cerebralis" that can attack fish is called a "Triactinomyxon", and there is a picture of it on the right. There are three "tails" that are each about 200 micrometers long, and another piece that is about 150 micrometers (μm) long. That piece has 64 cells in it. There are also three harpoon-like weapons that can attack the fish. They shoot into the fish, making a hole that the 64 cells can go into. Those cells make more cells that go to the cartilage near the fish's brain.

The kind of "M. cerebralis" that comes out of fish is called a "Myxospore". They are sort of round and fat in the middle like a lentil or a convex lens. They are about 10 micrometers across and are made of six cells. Two are for the harpoon weapons, two are for protecting the Myxospore, and two are for going into a worm after the weapons make a hole. Myxospores from "M. cerebralis" look a lot like Myxospores from other species that are sometimes in fish skin, muscle, or brains, and so it's hard to tell them apart.



</doc>
<doc id="18575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18575" title="Aamir Khan">
Aamir Khan

Aamir Khan (born March 14, 1965 in India) is a Bollywood actor. Khan first appeared in "Yaadon Ki Baaraat" (1973) as a child actor. His first big starring role was in "Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak" (1988).

Another of his best-known adult roles was starring in "" (2001), which was nominated for an Oscar. Khan was credited as producer for the film, with his first wife (1986-2002), Reena Datta, executive producer. Khan met his future second wife (2005-), Kiran Rao, on the set, where she was an assistant director.

His first movie released in 2006 is "Rang De Basanti".



</doc>
<doc id="18576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18576" title="Bahá'í Faith">
Bahá'í Faith

The Bahá'í Faith is a religion started in the 1800s by Bahá'u'lláh who was born in Tehran, Iran. Followers of this religion call themselves Bahá'ís. The name Bahá'u'lláh is Arabic for "The Glory of God". "Glory" is a word that means "importance", "power", and "beauty". Bahá'ís believe that Bahá'u'lláh is a representation of God, or speaks for God, and he shows people God's importance, beauty, and brightness.
Bahá'ís are monotheists (which means that they believe in one God). They believe that Bahá'u'lláh carried a message from God. Bahá'u'lláh said that he was not the only person to carry a message from God and that he was not the last to carry a message from God. He taught that the people who started the other major religions also represented and carried messages from God, such as Jesus, Moses, Abraham, Muhammad, Krishna, the Buddha and others. He called these people "Manifestations of God." They believe that the messages from the Manifestations of God get more and more difficult to understand. They say the ones that came earlier on had a more simple message than the ones that came later. Because God is greater than the whole universe, Bahá'u'lláh said that human beings cannot completely know God. He said that God wants people to know as much about him as they can. Bahá'u'lláh wrote that God sends special people to manifest (show) himself to ordinary humans. Without the Manifestations of God we could not know God. Because Bahá'ís believe that the God they pray to is the same God that Abraham spoke to,Jesus talked about and Krishna said in Gita. Since Bahá'u'lláh was born in a Muslim family people(of other religions except Muslims) mistake bahai's as Muslims . Bahá'u'lláh is considered the prophet/manifestation/avatar of the present day. Bahá'ís say that he is not the last prophet/manifestation/avatar of God. They think there will be more in the future, but there will be no more until 1000 years after Baha'u'llah's death.

The Bahá'í Faith began on 1844 when a man called the Báb said he had a message from God. He said that it was his job to make sure that people were ready for the most important message from God who would be sent soon. This started a religion, followers of this religion were called Bábís. Many people became Bábís in the country of Iran, which was called Persia at the time, and this made the government of Persia and the Muslim priests angry. They arrested and killed the Bab and his followers. Even though this happened, people still followed this religion.

Before Bahá'u'lláh said he had a message from God, he was a member of the religion that was started by the Báb. He became very famous among the Bábís. When the Báb was killed, some Bábís got very angry and tried to kill the king of Persia, even though Bahá'u'lláh told them not to kill him. When the Babis were caught, the government put many Bábís in jail, including Bahá'u'lláh. While in jail at Tehran, Bahá'u'lláh said he saw an angel that he called the "maid of heaven". The angel told him that he had to teach a message from God to the people of the world. The angel said that God would rescue and protect him so that he could teach this message. Eventually, he was released from jail and the government of Persia made him move to Baghdad, which was then controlled by the king of the Ottoman Empire.

While Baha'u'llah was in Baghdad, he had many problems, but he also made many friends. The government of Persia was unhappy that he seemed to be doing well in Baghdad, and so they asked the Ottoman Empire to move him further away from Persia. When he was about to leave, in 1863, he held a festival for 12 days on a small island in the Tigris river, which he called Ridvan, which means paradise. There he told some of his closest friends and family that he was the promised one of all of the major religions, and that eventually the whole world would know his message.

Eventually the Ottoman Empire sent him to many different cities, including Constantinople, Adrianople, Alexandria, and eventually Akka. He was in different jails this whole time, and the city of Akka had a big wall around it, and it was one big jail. While he was in Baghdad, and after, he wrote many books and letters to answer questions that his friends and followers asked him. At one point he was poisoned, so that he could not write anymore because his hands shook so badly. After that, he had someone write down what he said. When he was even older, his oldest son, `Abdu'l-Bahá arranged to have him move into a house near Mount Carmel, and he stayed there until he finally died in 1892.

After he died, people followed `Abdu'l-Bahá. Bahá'u'lláh had written that `Abdu'l-Bahá had special powers, and that God would make sure that if `Abdu'l-Bahá explained anything that Bahá'u'lláh said, then the Bahá'ís should believe that explanation. `Abdu'l-Bahá also wrote a lot of letters and gave talks, and eventually visited Paris, London, Montreal, New York City, San Francisco and other cities in the west. This helped the Bahá'í Faith to spread in Europe and North America. He died in 1921. He left a will, where he told the Bahá'ís to follow his grandson, Shoghi Effendi.

Shoghi Effendi was born in 1900 and was only a young man when his grandfather died and he became the leader of the Bahá'ís. He helped make the different agencies and councils that run the Bahá'í Faith today, and organized the religion in many ways. He also wrote many books and letters to explain the teachings of his grandfather and great-grandfather. He lived until 1957 and died in England.

After Shoghi Effendi died, the Bahá'ís did not have leaders for six years, because Shoghi Effendi had not left a will. Shoghi Effendi did have helpers, who did not think they were allowed to lead the Bahá'ís, so they helped the Bahá'í Community follow the last plan that Shoghi Effendi left them, and at the end of that plan, in 1963, they organized an election to form the Universal House of Justice, which Bahá'u'lláh wrote about. The Universal House of Justice has led the Bahá'ís ever since.

Bahá'u'lláh wrote many books and letters, and `Abdu'l-Bahá (whose name means "Servant of Glory") also wrote many books and letters which Bahá'ís see as special. Finally, Bahá'u'lláh's great-grandson Shoghi Effendi wrote lots of books and letters which Bahá'ís use to better understand the writings of Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá.

Bahá'ís also believe that the Bible, the Qur'an, the Gita and other books from other religions are special.

Some important Bahá'í beliefs are:

There are eight or nine million Bahá'ís in the world, of all peoples and languages. The Bahá'í Faith looks different in different countries, because there are few rituals, so Bahá'ís can include their own culture in the way they celebrate Bahá'í events, say prayers, etc.

Bahá'ís meet every nineteen (19) days in a meeting called a "Feast". There does not have to be food, but there usually is. These meetings start with prayers and usually someone reads aloud some holy writings. Sometimes there is music and song, sometimes plays, sometimes just quiet time or meditation. After this time, which Bahá'ís call the "devotional" time in a feast, they have a community discussion. All sorts of topics can be discussed here that are important to the members. Bahá'ís say that this is a "consultative" time, where Bahá'ís can consult with each other. After this, there is a social time, where people can share food, drink (not alcohol), and sometimes here there is also music, or plays, or presentations, or other entertainment. This time is just so that the Bahá'ís in that city can get to know each other and become better friends.

Bahá'ís often do not have one place they get together, except in large cities. In smaller places they usually get together in each others' houses. Some larger cities have "Bahá'í Centers" which can be used for community meetings, classes, or for meetings of committees and other councils. (see Institutions below) 

In a very few cities in the world, there are Bahá'í temples. These temples are on each continent. 

Bahá'ís are organized in a worldwide community. They do not have priests. Everyone is responsible for their own prayers. Bahá'ís are also responsible for reading their holy books for themselves and for learning about their religion. Baha'is elect leaders for their community, to help organize their activities, and to deal with problems between members, and to decide things that are not obvious from the scriptures. These are called Spiritual Assemblies, but will one day be called Houses of Justice. 

There is one House of Justice, which Bahá'ís call the Universal House of Justice, which leads the whole worldwide Bahá'í community. Bahá'ís elect this House of Justice every five years, but only once each year for National and Local Spiritual Assemblies.






</doc>
<doc id="18577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18577" title="Neoclassical economics">
Neoclassical economics

Neoclassical economics is an economic theory that argues for markets to be free. This means governments should generally not make rules about types of businesses, businesses' behaviour, who may make things, who may sell things, who may buy things, prices, quantities or types of things sold and bought. The theory argues that allowing individual actors (people or businesses) freedom creates better economic outcomes. These outcomes may be a higher average standard of living, higher wages, better average life-expectancies, and higher GDP. 

Markets are an abstract idea: assumed to be all the 'actors' (businesses or people) selling one thing, service or type of thing or service, and all the 'actors' buying it. 

Markets will 'reach equilibrium' if all the sellers who want to sell at or below a given price have sold to all the buyers who are willing to buy at or above a given price. the price is worked out in the market.

It may be easier to think about this in reverse: The market is not in equilibrium if people want to buy a haircut for ten (or more) pesos and someone is happy to sell the person a haircut for ten (or less) pesos, but for some reason this does not happen. 

Neoclassical economists say this will not happen. Neo-Keynesians say it might, so the government could make the customer and the person selling the haircut happier by helping the customer somehow.

Neo-Keynesian economy is the opposite of Neoclassical economy. The major point of difference between neoclassical economics and neo-Keynesian economics is about whether 'markets' 'reach equilibrium'. 


</doc>
<doc id="18589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18589" title="Nile">
Nile

The Nile (Arabic: النيل "an-nīl") is a river in Africa. It is the longest river on Earth (about 6,650 km or 4,132 miles), and flows into the Mediterranean Sea near Alexandria. It gets its name from the Greek word "Nelios".

The White Nile flows from Lake Victoria in Uganda, and through Sudan to Khartoum, where it is joined by the Blue Nile to form the Nile, then through Egypt. The Blue Nile flows through Ethiopia. About 300 million cubic metres of water flow down the Nile each day.

The Nile is very important to the countries where it flows. Many cities in Egypt are built next to the river. Also, the pyramids are close to the Nile. The Nile provides most of the water used to grow crops in Egypt, since much of the rest of the country is in a desert. The Nile was very important to Ancient Egyptians. The Ancient Egyptians got papyrus from the Nile.

There are many different types of animals living in or near the waters of the Nile, including crocodiles, birds, fish and many others. Not only do animals depend on the Nile for survival, but also people who live there need it for everyday use like washing, as a water supply, keeping crops watered and other jobs.

Pyramids were built close to the Nile because they needed the granite stones from Aswan to be transported by barges down the Nile.

The word "Nile" comes from Greek "Neilos" (). Nobody knows where the Greek "Neilos" came from. In the ancient Egyptian language, the Nile is called "Ḥ'pī" or "iteru", meaning "great river", represented by the hieroglyphs shown on the right (literally "itrw", and 'waters' determinative). In Coptic, the words "piaro" (Sahidic) or "phiaro" (Bohairic) meaning "the river" (lit. p(h).iar-o "the.canal-great") come from the same ancient name.


</doc>
<doc id="18592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18592" title="Statue">
Statue

A Statue is a model of somebody or something, usually of a person or sometimes an animal. It is a sculpture. Several kinds of material can be used to make a statue, e.g. stone, bronze, clay, or wood. Statues are often at least life-size (the same size as the real person), but often they are much bigger, especially statues in the open air. Statues are often made to remember an important person (such as the statue of Alfred the Great), or to remember an event or an idea (such as the Statue of Liberty).

Usually there is some writing on a statue to say who the person is. This writing is called an epigraph. The statue may be standing on a base. This base is called a "plinth".
A bust is a statue of the head, shoulders and upper body of a person.

A colossus is an enormous statue.

A statue of someone on horseback (riding a horse) is called an equestrian statue.


</doc>
<doc id="18594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18594" title="Help:Change conflict">
Help:Change conflict

This page is about change conflicts, and what to do when they happen. To know how change conflicts happen and what they are, think about what will happen when:


At the top of the change conflict page is a box containing Alice's version of the whole page, even if Bob is only changing a section of the page.

At the bottom of the page showing the change conflict is a second box containing the text Bob was going to submit. This will be Bob's version of the page or section he was changing.

Between the two boxes is a diff that show the difference between Alice's and Bob's version of the article. For the section Bob is changing it shows Bob's changes and Alice's possible changes, except for sections where Bob and Alice have both made the same change. For the other sections it shows the full new text as if all that text was added.

Bob can change in the upper box and press Save. "In the case Bob was changing only a section, this will be interpreted as the new version of the section, hence produce duplication of the other sections, unless Bob deletes them before saving." (This seems to be a bug.) The best solution in this case is to "save your new text" (e.g., to the clipboard), cancel out, then try again.

At certain times when pressing Save and the system is slow, one may be able to make multiple changes to the same page before the system responds. "This produces a change conflict with oneself." In this case the upper text may be the old version instead of the one involving the first change, i.e., the system notices the earlier change but has not processed it yet. A moment later, while one is viewing the change conflict page, the first change is carried out in the background, and the upper text no longer is the current one. Hence, the diff shows the combined changes, and in the case of section changing, like before, the "addition" of the other sections. If you choose to save your work in this type of change conflict, it will result in the removal of your previous changing from the page.

If Bob only made small changes, and Alice made large changes, he may choose to work from Alice's version, and re-merge his changes in. Bob might choose to add some text like "by change conflict" to the change summary, or use template on a Discussion/Talk page, to warn Alice and others that he had to do this – Alice can then his merging for accuracy.

If Bob made large changes, and Alice made small changes, he may choose to work from his version. One choice is for Bob to copy the bottom text into the top text (or just copy over the one section of the top text, if Bob was changing a section), with an appropriate (for example, "via change conflict, will remerge"). Then Bob can view the page history, determine Alice's changes, and re-apply them to his version, in a separate change.

If both Alice and Bob made large changes, matters become complicated, and Alice and Bob just have to do the best they can. For example, if both Alice and Bob add a large section of text on the same subject at the same time, then it may be best for Bob to submit his changes, and then for Alice and Bob to both have a look at the two versions and decide between themselves which version is better.

Bob should not just post his changes over the top of Alice's. We – mistakes are occasionally made, and newcomers may not understand the change conflict window. However, Bob must not routinely ignore change conflicts. It is absolutely not acceptable for Bob to overwrite Alice out of laziness. We encourage contributors to double-check their merges by using the feature.

Some people change pages by copying the source text into a text changer, making lots of changes (reorganising, adding new content, etc.), and then, when they're done, pasting the whole thing back onto Wikipedia as a single (new) change. If someone else has made changes in the meantime these changes would get lost in the paste back. People who change pages this way should either:


Sometimes mistakes will be made in the merging process, because Bob is human, and this may cause some of Alice's changes to be accidentally reversed. Logical change conflicts aren't always immediately visible. Sometimes Bob may have good reasons for thinking that Alice's improvements aren't useful. In these case, Alice and Bob are expected to resolve their differences amicably.

If Alice made a small change, which Bob accidentally reversed, then Alice must not revert to her version. It is absolutely not acceptable for Alice to reverse Bob's major improvements to the page out of a desire to protect her minor improvements, or to punish Bob for his carelessness. This is particularly important if the page has subsequently been changed by, say, Sarah and Jonathan.

The best approach for Alice in this circumstance is for Alice to change Bob's version, reinstate her minor improvements, and leave Bob's major improvements intact. She may also add something to the change summary to indicate that she had to do this – for example: "Reinstating link which Bob accidentally removed". Bob should then apologise to Alice for his mistake, and thank her for reinstating her improvement.

If Bob repeats his error, then the best approach is for Alice to have a friendly word on his talk page, point him to this page, and ask him if he could take a little more care in the future. This is particularly important for newcomers, who may not understand the correct way to resolve change conflicts, though even experienced users may need the occasional friendly reminder.

When saving a previous version (i.e., when reverting) or a new version based on that (a modified reversion) the change conflict warning and prevention system is not triggered and a possible new change made in the meantime is unintentionally reverted also, see . To avoid this problem one can copy the text from the box of the old version into the box of the latest version. In some sense, this can cause "hidden change conflicts": you may overwrite someone else's changes without realising that you are doing so. It's always wise to check the after performing a revert, just as you would after posting via change conflict. Preferably, one can simply try to avoid reversion wars.

Because change conflicts are irritating and time-consuming, you may choose to alter your changing habits to render them less frequent: aiming to make more changes to pages that have not been changed recently.

Another means of avoiding change conflicts is to make a single larger change, rather than frequent smaller changes: this makes it more likely that you will get an change conflict, but less likely that you will cause others to get an change conflict. Using the "" button helps here.

To reduce the chance of change conflicts, Wikipedia has an "In Use" notice in its namespace that people may use when changing a page over a long period of time. Simply put <nowiki></nowiki> on an article before proceeding with a major change, and remove the template when the changing is complete.

New since v.1.3 is CVS-style change conflict merging, based on the diff3 utility. This feature will only trigger a change conflict if users attempt to change the same few lines. See also .


</doc>
