<doc id="13439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13439" title="Rainbow flag">
Rainbow flag

The rainbow flag is a multi-colored flag consisting of stripes in the colors of the rainbow that is displayed in many cultures around the world as a sign of diversity and inclusiveness. The German pastor Thomas Müntzer used a rainbow flag as a symbol of solidarity as early as the German Peasants' War of the 16th century. It is common as a symbol of the Peace movement, first used this way in a peace march in Italy in 1961.

In 1924 the Indian spiritual teacher Meher Baba designed a rainbow flag. It is flown each year near his tomb near Ahmednagar, India during the anniversary of his death on January 31, 1969. Baba explained the symbolism, saying, "The colors in the flag signify man's rise from the grossest of impressions of lust and anger – symbolized by red – to the culmination in the highest state of spirituality and oneness with God – symbolized by sky blue." 

The rainbow is also a symbol in the Christian and Jewish Bible. It shows God's promise to Noah and his family to never cover the world in water again.

A Christian movement known as Cursillo, founded in 1944, uses these traditional rainbow symbols, including flags. Their version can have 5 to 7 colors, with red at the top, blue or purple at the bottom, and the Spanish words "De Colores!" ("of colors") in large letters on the front.

This rainbow flag in Italy was first used in a peace march in 1961, inspired by similar multi-coloured flags used in demonstrations against nuclear weapons. The most common variety has seven colours, purple, blue, light blue, green, yellow, orange and red, and is emblazoned in bold with the Italian word "PACE", meaning "peace". 

Since 1978 the rainbow flag is also the symbol of the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) community. It is also called the 'Pride Flag.'

The flag was first used at a LGBT pride parade in San Francisco in 1978. The flag started with eight colors. The next year it was changed to six colors, so it could be easier to make.

The flag was first made by Gilbert Baker. It was to use instead of the Pink Triangle symbol used before. The pink triangle was used by Nazis to show who was homosexual. Homosexual people were sent to Concentration Camps in Nazi Germany. They made homosexual men wear a pink triangle. This was like the yellow Star of David that Jews had to wear to show who was Jewish. LGBT people were not ashamed of the pink triangle. But they wanted a symbol that was happier and more positive.

In the LGBT version of the rainbow flag, each color has a different meaning:
It used to have a pink stripe, which meant "sexuality", but was cut off because it was too expensive to get pink cloth.
Rainbows are a symbol of gay union. Tens of thousand of people use the rainbow symbol everyday.


</doc>
<doc id="13441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13441" title="Dualism">
Dualism

Dualism is the idea or theory that something (an object, an idea or the whole world) is split into two parts. These parts are separate from each other, and the thing cannot be divided up in any other way. The idea or theory that something cannot be split into any parts is called monism. The idea that something can be split into many parts is called pluralism.

In philosophy there are many kinds of dualism.

Dualism is also a common sense idea. For example it is a form of dualism to say that a thing is either hot or cold, good or bad, mine or somebody else's, with no allowance for possible states in between.


</doc>
<doc id="13443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13443" title="Vomit">
Vomit

Vomiting, also called puking, is emptying the contents of stomach through mouth. It can be either food or liquid in the stomach. It can be from infection, contaminated food or drink (food poisoning), foul smells or foul-tasting food, the brain being injured, a block in the small intestines so food and liquid cannot go through, too much alcohol or other drugs. Also, people can make themselves vomit (self-induced) which is called purging. Usually people who have eaten or drunk poison are made to vomit any residual (leftover) poison off. Excessive vomiting may lead to dehydration, which can be dangerous, if not fatal.


</doc>
<doc id="13444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13444" title="Ancient Greece">
Ancient Greece

Ancient Greece was a large area in the north-west of the Mediterranean where people spoke Greek. It was much bigger than the Greece we know today. It was the civilization of Greece from the Archaic period of the 8th/6th centuries BC to 146 BC. The period ended with the Roman conquest of Greece in the Battle of Corinth.

For most of this time the Greeks did not have a single government or ruler. There were a number of city states, each of which had its own constitution. Athens, Sparta and Corinth are examples. Some had kings, and some, like Athens had a form of democracy. 

In the middle of this period was Classical Greece, which flourished during the 5th to 4th centuries BC. Athenian leadership successfully repelled the threat of Persian invasion. The Athenian Golden Age ends with the defeat of Athens at the hands of Sparta in the Peloponnesian War in 404 BC.

In the last, Helenistic, period Greece was unified by the conquests of Alexander the Great. The city states continued, under the overall influence of Macedonia.

Greek culture had a powerful influence on the Roman Empire, which carried a version of it to many parts of the Mediterranean region and Europe. In this way, Classical Greece was part of the foundation of Western civilization. Greek was also the language, and partly the culture, of the Byzantine Empire.

Classical Antiquity in Greece is preceded by the Mycenaean culture, and then by the Greek Dark Ages (c.1100-c.750 BC). The history of Greece during this time may be split into the following periods: 


In the 8th century BC the Greeks learned how to read and write a second time. They had lost literacy at the end of the Mycenaean culture, as the Mediterranean world fell into the Dark Ages. The Greek Dark Ages (~1100 BC–750 BC), or Bronze Age collapse, is a period in the history of Ancient Greece and Anatolia from which there are no records, and few archaeological remains.

The Greeks learned about the alphabet from another ancient people, the Phoenicians. They made some adjustments to it. In particular, the Greeks introduced regular letters for vowels, which was necessary for their language. Their alphabet was, in turn, copied by the Romans, and much of the world now uses the Roman alphabet.

Ancient Greece had a single language and culture, but was not was unified until 337 BC, when Macedonia defeated Athens and Thebes. That marked the end of the Ancient period, and the start of the Hellenistic period. Even then, the conquered cities were merely joined to the Corinthian League; they were not occupied but ruled themselves. 

Ancient Greece consisted of several hundred more-or-less independent city states. This was different from other societies, which were tribal, or kingdoms ruling over relatively large territories. 

Undoubtedly the geography of Greece—divided and sub-divided by hills, mountains and rivers—contributed to the nature of ancient Greece. On the one hand, the ancient Greeks had no doubt that they were 'one people'; they had the same religion, same basic culture, and same language. Yet the city states were independent; unification was something rarely discussed by the ancient Greeks. 

Even when, during the second Persian invasion of Greece, a group of city-states allied themselves to defend Greece, the most "poleis" remained neutral, and after the Persian defeat, the allies quickly returned to infighting.

Thus, the major peculiarities of the Ancient Greek political system were; firstly, its fragmentary nature; and secondly the focus on urban centres within otherwise tiny states. There was not one country, but many little countries called "city states". 

The colonies they set up throughout the Mediterranean, though they counted a Greek "polis" as their 'mother' (and remain sympathetic to her), were completely independent of the founding city.

Conquest or direct rule by another city state appears to have been quite rare. Instead the "poleis" grouped themselves into leagues, membership of which was in a constant state of flux. Later in the Classical period, the leagues would become fewer and larger, be dominated by one city (particularly Athens, Sparta and Thebes). 

Often cities would be compelled to join under threat of war (or as part of a peace treaty). Even after Philip II of Macedon 'conquered' the heartlands of ancient Greece, he did not attempt to annex the territory, or unify it into a new province, but simply compelled most of the "poleis" to join his own Corinthian League.

In ancient times, not all of Greece was democratic. Democratic city-states like Athens or semi-democratic (democracy only for the wealthy) city-states like Sparta were just a few examples of the states that together formed Greece. The most famous Greek kingdom is Macedon, which became the largest empire the world had seen at the time and conquered Egypt and Persia until it reached modern-day India. Other famous kingdoms are Epirus and Thessaly. 

Monarchies in ancient Greece were not entirely absolute because there was a council of old people ("the senate", or in Macedonia "the congress") who gave advise to the King. These people were not elected like they were in the Greek city-states.

The number of Greeks grew and soon they could not grow enough food for all the people. When this happened, a city would send people off to start a new city. 

Because the terrain was rough, most travel was by the sea. For this reason, many new cities were established along the coastline. First new cities were started in Anatolia (Asia Minor) and then in the Black sea, in Cyprus, in southern Italy and in Sicily, by the sea in what today is Libya. They even started a city, Naucratis, on the river Nile in Egypt. The cities of today, Syracuse, Naples, Marseilles, and Istanbul started as the Greek cities Syracusa, Neapolis, Massilia and Byzantium.

By the 6th century some cities became much more important than the others. They were Corinth, Thebes, Sparta, and Athens.

The Spartans were very good soldiers. They defeated the people who lived near them and those people had to farm the land for the Spartans. These people called helots had to give the Spartans part of the food they grew and so the Spartans did not have to work. Instead, they learned how to be better soldiers. There were not many Spartans but there were many helots. "What if the helots rebel?", thought the Spartans. They were afraid of that. To stop the helots rebelling they sometimes did bad things to the helots. The Spartans wanted the helots to be afraid of them so that the helots would not rebel and fight to be free. The Spartans had two kings who led them in war. They were also ruled by a group of old men called the Gerousia (the senate).

Athens became a democracy in 510 BC. The men came to a place in the center of the city and decided what to do. It was the first place in the world where the people decided what their country should do. They would talk and then vote on what to do at the Boule or the Bouleutirion (the parliament). But the women did not vote. They did not have helots like Sparta but they had slaves. These slaves were owned by their masters and could be sold to someone else. The Athenian slaves were less free than the Spartan helots but the Athenians were not afraid of their slaves. Every year, they elected 8 generals who led them in war.

In 499 BC, the Greek cities in Anatolia rebelled. They did not want Persia to rule them anymore. Athens sent 20 ships to fight the Persians on the sea. The Greeks in Anatolia were defeated. The Persian King, Darius decided to punish Athens. He sent soldiers and ships to fight Athens. 

Athens asked for help from Sparta. Sparta wanted to help but could not; they had a religious festival at that time. Athens sent her soldiers against the Persian soldiers: at the Battle of Marathon (490 BC) they defeated the Persians. Then the help from Sparta came.

Unfortunately for Leonidas, after a couple of days, a traitor called Ephialtes led the Persians around the pass behind the Greek army at Thermopylae. Realising that defeat was inevitable, Leonidas sent away most of the amassed troops.

On the third day, Leonidas led his 300 Spartan hoplites (elite troops selected because they had living sons back home) plus the allied Thespians and Thebans against Xerxes and his army of "100,000 Immortals." The Spartan-led forces fought this unstoppable Persian force to their deaths in order to block the pass long enough to keep Xerxes and his army occupied while the rest of the Greek army escaped.

After Thermopylae many Greeks wanted to go south to the Peloponnese. Because of the sea the way into the Peloponnese is very narrow. Many wanted to fight the Persians where it is very narrow, by the city of Corinth. 

Athens was north of Corinth and she had many ships. Athens' leader Themistocles wanted to fight the Persians by the island of Salamis. Xerxes decided to send his fleet against the Greek fleet before the Greek ships could go to the Peloponnese. The Greek fleet defeated the Persians at the Battle of Salamis. Xerxes then went home with many of his soldiers but a Persian army stayed in Greece. This army was defeated at the Battle of Platea in 479 BC.

After the Persians were defeated at Platea, the Spartans did very little. However Persia sent its ships across the sea to help Greek cities in Anatolia fight for their freedom. Athens asked the Greek cities on the islands in the Aegean and in Anatolia to join her. These cities agreed because they were afraid of Persia. These cities formed the Delian League and Athens was their leader. Many of the cities had to pay Athens money. Athens used the money to build many ships. Sparta was still strong on land, but Athens was stronger on the sea. Several times there was war between Athens and Sparta. Then Athens decided to send many ships to Sicily to fight against the city Syracuse. Sparta sent help to Syracuse, and Athens was defeated. None of the Athenian ships came back. Now Sparta decided to build ships to fight Athens. It took a long time for Sparta to defeat Athens but then at the Battle of Aegospotami the Spartans destroyed most of Athens's ships. The Athenians used a highly advanced type of ship known only as triremes. These highly advanced battle craft were equipped with sophisticated combat systems, and were propelled by an armada of extremely buff men. On the front of the trireme was a large bronze ram. The trireme would row itself at an enemy boat very fast, and ram a hole into its hull. This was the most effective way for the trireme to destroy other boats. Sometimes, the soldiers (called hoplites) on the trireme would board the ship and keep it for their own.

Men, if not farming, fighting or discussing politics, could be at the Ancient Greek theatre watching dramas, comedies or tragedies. These often involved politics and gods. Women were not allowed to perform at the theatre: male actors played female roles.

Women were doing domestic work like spinning and weaving. They were not involved in public life or politics.

Boys liked playing games like hockey. They usually played games naked, so girls were forbidden to watch. They also played non physical activiy games like marbles, dice, checkers and knucklebones. 



</doc>
<doc id="13448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13448" title="Malaria">
Malaria

Malaria is an infectious disease. It is caused by parasites. People catch malaria when the parasite enters the blood. The parasite causes a deadly infection which kills many people each year.

The parasite that causes malaria is a protozoan called "Plasmodium". Protozoa are organisms with only one cell, but they are not bacteria. Bacteria are smaller and simpler than protozoa.

There are several species (kinds) of "Plasmodium" that cause malaria in humans:

"P. vivax" and "P. falciparum" cause the most malaria in people. "Falciparum" malaria is the worst kind, and kills the most people.

People usually get malaria from the "Anopheles" or "Culex" mosquitoes: they are the vectors of the disease. The "Plasmodium" gets into people by the bites of mosquitoes. The "Plasmodium" is in the mosquito's special saliva. The mosquito's saliva injects an anticoagulant into the person to prevent their blood from clotting. The person is then infected with "Plasmodium" as a by-product. This makes the person have the disease we call malaria.

The kind of mosquito that carries malaria is the "anopheles" mosquito. Only the female mosquito gives people malaria, because only the female mosquito bites.

Some people do not get malaria from mosquitoes. A baby can get it while inside its mother. This is called "maternal-fetal transmission". People can also get malaria from a blood transfusion. This is when someone gives blood to another person. Another way people can catch malaria is by using a needle that someone with the disease used before them.

It was Britain's Sir Ronald Ross, working in the Presidency General Hospital in Calcutta, who finally proved in 1898 that malaria is transmitted by mosquitoes. He did this by showing that certain mosquito species transmit malaria to birds. He isolated malaria parasites from the salivary glands of mosquitoes that had fed on infected birds. For this work, Ross received the 1902 Nobel Prize in Medicine. After resigning from the Indian Medical Service, Ross worked at the newly established Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine and directed malaria-control efforts in Egypt, Panama, Greece and Mauritius. The findings of Finlay and Ross were later confirmed by a medical board headed by Walter Reed in 1900. Its recommendations were used during construction of the Panama Canal. This public-health work saved the lives of thousands of workers and helped develop the methods used in future public-health campaigns against the disease.

The first effective treatment for malaria came from the bark of cinchona tree, which contains quinine. This tree grows on the slopes of the Andes, mainly in Peru. The indigenous peoples of Peru made a tincture of cinchona to control malaria. The Jesuits noted the efficacy of the practice and introduced the treatment to Europe during the 1640s, where it was rapidly accepted. It was not until 1820 that the active ingredient, quinine, was extracted from the bark, isolated and named by French chemists.

In the early 20th century, before antibiotics became available, Julius Wagner-Jauregg discovered that patients with syphilis could be treated by intentionally infecting them with malaria. The resulting fever would kill the syphilis spirochaetes, and quinine could be administered to control the malaria. Although some patients died from malaria, this was preferable to the almost-certain death from syphilis.

Malaria was the largest hazard encountered by U.S. troops in the South Pacific during World War II, where about 500,000 men were infected. Sixty thousand American soldiers died of malaria during the North African and South Pacific campaigns.

When "Plasmodium" enters the blood, they are then called "sporozoites". Sporozoites go to the liver, where they make many more sporozoites. Then they change into a different form of "Plasmodium". This form is the "merozoite". The merozoites go into the red blood cells, then they make many more merozoites.

The merozoites break out of the red blood cells again and again. When they do this, the person gets very sick, and shows symptoms of malaria. This happens every few days, and is called a paroxysm.

"P. vivax" and "P. ovale" can live in the liver for a long time. A person can look well, but still have the "Plasmodium" in the liver. This is called a "dormant phase". Weeks or months later, the "Plasmodium" can leave the liver to the blood, and the person will get sick again. 

"P. falciparum" is the most dangerous type of malaria. It makes people sicker than those with other types of malaria, because there are more of them in the blood. Also, with "falciparum" malaria, the red blood cells are sticky. This makes the red blood cells block blood vessels. If blood vessels are blocked, this can hurt what the blood vessel brings blood to, and can hurt people's organs.

Pregnant women and children are hurt most by malaria. When they get malaria, they get sicker. 

40% of people live in a place where there is malaria. Malaria is in these places:
Every year, 300 to 700 million people get malaria. It kills 1 million to 2 million people every year. 90% of the people who die from malaria die in Africa. Most of the people who die from malaria are children. In Africa, 20% of children under five die from malaria. Even if children do not die, many have brain damage.

"Most" of these deaths could be stopped with medicine or with ways to stop mosquitoes. UNICEF says: the medicine that costs the most for malaria is only $2.40 to help one adult. But many of the places malaria may be found are in poor countries. These countries do not have enough money to stop the mosquitoes, or to give people medicine.

Symptoms are changes in someone's body that are signs for a disease. Most people who get malaria get symptoms 10–30 days after they get infected (the "Plasmodium" gets in their blood.) But some people can get symptoms after only a week, and some may be infected with malaria and not have symptoms for a year. 

The most common symptom of malaria is fever, when the body temperature is high. The fever from malaria usually comes very suddenly. The people who have Malaria often feel like they had influenza.

Symptoms of malaria are:

Complications are problems that happen because of a disease.

Pregnant women and young children have more complications. People who get malaria for the first time have more complications. "Falciparum" malaria has the most complications. 

Complications of malaria are:

In places where malaria is, there may not be good medical care. People may "diagnose" malaria just by people having symptoms. Diagnose means to learn if a person has a disease. Doctors diagnose people sometimes just by symptoms. This is called a "clinical diagnosis". Doctors also use tests to see if people have a disease.

If a person has symptoms and is in a place where there is malaria, they might have malaria. To see if they have malaria, doctors may do a blood test. This test is called a "Giemsa blood smear". Blood is put on a slide which is a thin piece of glass. The "Giemsa" stain is put on the slide. This stain helps doctors see the malaria. Then they look at the slide under a microscope. The "Plasmodium" is seen in the red blood cells.

Sometimes the blood smear will not show "Plasmodium" even if the person has malaria. This can be because the stain was not good. It can also be because the microscope was not good. Or it can be because the person looking in the microscope did not know what "Plasmodium" look like. But often it is because the number of malaria parasites present in the blood is so low that they are not present in the section of the blood that was looked at.

There are other tests to diagnose malaria. These are more expensive. People do not use them as much. Sometimes people test to see if the "Plasmodium" is resistant to medicines to treat malaria. Resistance means the medicine cannot hurt the "Plasmodium". This means that taking the medicine will not cure someone with malaria, because it will not kill the "Plasmodium".

People with different kinds of malaria need different medicines. The medicine that works for one kind of malaria may not for another kind. So it is very important to know which "species" of "Plasmodium" the person has. 

If the species is not known, the person should be given medicine and care like they have "falciparum" malaria - the worst kind.

It is also important to know "where" the person got malaria. "Plasmodium" in some places are resistant to some medicines. So the medicines to treat malaria in Africa are different from the medicines to treat malaria from South America.

It is important for doctors to learn about malaria treatment. Resistance to medicines changes. Places where there was no resistance can get resistant malaria. So doctors need to know when this changes. If a doctor treats a person with malaria, he should know what places in the world have resistant malaria. If he has not treated a person in a long time, he should check before treating people.

Everywhere except New Guinea, the treatment is the same. In New Guinea most "P. vivax" is resistant to chloroquine. It can be treated with quinine, but this medicine can make people sick. Everywhere else, non-falciparum malaria is treated with chloroquine.

Chloroquine kills the "Plasmodium" in the blood. But the "Plasmodium" in the liver is not killed by chloroquine. "P. vivax" and "P. ovale" both stay in the liver a "long" time. This is the "dormant phase". Another medicine must be given with chloroquine for "P. vivax" and "P. ovale". This is to kill the "Plasmodium" in the liver. If this other medicine is not given, malaria can come back after months. It can even come back five years later.

The medicine used to kill malaria in the liver is "primaquine". In southeast Asia, some "P. vivax" is resistant to primaquine. Most other places, primaquine works very well.

Some people get very sick from primaquine. Some people do not make enough of an enzyme in the blood. This enzyme is called Glucose-6-Phosphate-Dehydrogenase (Acronym G6PD). People who do not have enough have a disease called G6PD deficiency (or favism). People with G6PD-deficiency get very "very" sick if they take primaquine. It makes their red blood cells all die. This can even kill them. So people have to be tested to see if they have G6PD-deficiency before they take primaquine.

Medicines to kill "P. vivax" and "P. ovale" in the liver are not safe for pregnant women. So a pregnant woman must usually take chloroquine until she has her baby.

"Falciparum" is the worst kind of malaria. Most people who die from malaria have "falciparum".

Many people with "falciparum" malaria must be treated in a hospital. People with "falciparum" malaria should be treated in a hospital if they are:

Even people who are treated with medicines at home should stay with the doctor for 8 hours. This is to make sure they do not get sicker. It also makes sure they can take the medicines by mouth.

"Falciparum" malaria also has more resistance to medicines. This makes it much harder to treat. "Falciparum" malaria is always treated with two or more medicines. Doctors choose the medicines by where in the world the person got malaria. Different places have "P. falciparum" that is resistant to different medicines.

The most important resistance is chloroquine-resistance. In some places in the world, "P. falciparum" is killed by chloroquine. In some places it is chloroquine-resistant. This means chloroquine does not kill it. In these places quinine can be used. 

If people are very sick and cannot swallow medicines, they get "intravenous" (acronym IV) medicine. Intravenous means given into a vein. The IV medicine used for very bad chloroquine-resistant falciparum malaria is quinine. If people got malaria in a place with no chloroquine-resistance other medicines can be used. But sometimes doctors still use IV quinine. This is to be very certain they will kill the "P. falciparum".

If the "P. falciparum" is not chloroquine-resistant people do not usually take quinine. This is because quinine can make people sick. If people get sick from quinine, it is called "Cinchonism". Symptoms of cinchonism are:

Quinine is also taken by mouth.

The best way to treat malaria is to not get it!

There are three ways to prevent malaria:

"Vector control" is one way to stop malaria. Vector means an organism that carries an infectious disease to another organism. For malaria, the vector is the anopheles mosquito. It carries "Plasmodium" to people. 

There are many ways to conduct a good "vector control". The best ways are different in different places. This depends on the environment. It also depends on how much malaria is in the place. So the "best" way to do vector control in the United States is different than the "best" way to do vector control in South Africa.

The most used method of vector control is pesticides. These are chemicals that kill the mosquito. The first pesticide used for vector control was DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane.) DDT was first used in World War II.

DDT worked very well for vector control. It killed mosquitoes. It did not make people very sick at the time it was used. It did not cost very much money. Other chemicals for vector control had not been invented yet.

In many places mosquitos became resistant to DDT. This meant that DDT did not work anymore in these areas. The places where mosquitoes are DDT-resistant are:

The EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) classifies DDT as a Persistent Bioaccumulative Toxin (PBT)meaning that it builds up over time in the bodies of plants,animals and humans.DDT can be passed on from water to fish or some plants, and consequently passed from plant/fish on to humans who may eat them.

Possible Harmful Effects include:

Scientists also worried that DDT was making people and animals sick. Scientists think it might cause hormones to not work right. It might also make people and animals have trouble reproducing (getting pregnant and making babies.) It killed a lot of wildlife too.

They learned that DDT stays in the environment for a long time. They learned also that DDT used in one place may go all over the world. DDT used in Africa may go to Europe. So people are worried that DDT used today will stay in the world for a long time. This is why DDT is not allowed to be used in farming anymore.

For these reasons, people mostly use other chemicals for vector control. "Organophosphate" or "carbamate" pesticides are used, like "malathion" or "bendiocarb". These cost more money than DDT. And there are ways to control malaria that do not use chemicals at all. 

Vector control is not the only way to stop malaria. And DDT is not the only chemical that can be used for vector control. The best way to stop malaria is to use a combination of methods. In some places, DDT may be a useful part of a program to stop malaria. This is why DDT is still allowed to be used for controlling malaria.

The mosquito that carries malaria comes more at dawn (when the sun comes up) and dusk (when the sun goes down.) Be most careful at these times.

Wear long pants and shirts with long sleeves.

Wear mosquitoes repellent (this is a chemical that mosquitoes do not like, so they do not bite.) Mosquitoes will bite through thin cloth. So repellent should be used on skin "and clothes".

Pesticides can be used in rooms to kill mosquitoes.

When sleeping outside, people use a mosquito net. This is made from cloth that air can go through but keeps mosquitoes out. It is put over a bed where people sleep to keep mosquitoes out. Sometimes people also use it when they are not sleeping. It is best to use mosquito nets that have been treated with Permethrin, which repels and kills mosquitoes.

People can take medicine when they are in a place where there is malaria. This reduces the chances that they contract malaria. This is called "prophylaxis".

Some people take prophylactic medicines for years. Many people in areas where there is malaria do not have the money to buy this medicine.

People who live where there is no malaria usually have "not" had malaria. The first case malaria is usually much worse. So people from places where there is no malaria may take prophylactic medicines when they go to places where there is malaria.

The kind of prophylactic medicines people take depends on where they are. This is because not all medicines work on the malaria in every place. Some "Plasmodium" are resistant. Even if the right medicine is used, it does not always work. Sometimes people get malaria even if they take prophylaxis. Sometimes this is because people do not take the medicine the right way. But even if it is taken right, it does not always work.

To make them work best, prophylactic medicines have to be taken the right way. The medicine should start "before" going to an area with malaria. Most medicines should be taken for 4 weeks after coming home. One medicine (Malarone) only needs to be used for "one" week after coming home.



</doc>
<doc id="13449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13449" title="Blood vessel">
Blood vessel

A blood vessel is a tube that carries blood. Blood vessels that take blood away from the heart are arteries. Blood vessels that take blood to the heart are veins. Capillaries are located between veins and arteries and they supply tissue with blood and oxygen.

The heart plus all of the blood vessels in the body together are called the circulatory system

The expansion of blood vessels is called vasodilation, it helps the body to get rid of heat energy.
The constrication of blood vessels is called vasoconstriction, it prevents the body from losing warmth.


</doc>
<doc id="13450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13450" title="Jana Gana Mana">
Jana Gana Mana

Jana Gana Mana written in Sanskritised Bengali is the first of five stanzas of a Brahmo hymn composed and scored by Nobel Prize winner Rabindranath Tagore.

It was first sung at the Calcutta Session of the Indian National Congress,on 27 December 1911. Jana Gana Mana was officially adopted by the Constituent Assembly as the Indian national anthem on January 24, 1950. Every independence day, the billion people of the republic of India join together in singing this beautifully composed anthem with its amazing music. Its amazingly poetic verses make it one of best anthems in the world.
The Bengali lyrics are transliterated below.

<poem>
Thou art the ruler of the minds of all people,
Dispenser of India's destiny.
Thy name rouses the hearts of Punjab, Sindh,
Gujarat and Maratha,
Of the Dravida and Orissa and Bengal;
It echoes in the hills of the Vindhyas and Himalayas,
mingles in the music of Jamuna and Ganges and is
chanted by the waves of the Indian Sea.
They pray for thy blessings and sing thy praise.
The saving of all people waits in thy hand,
Thou dispenser of India's destiny.
</poem>
</div>



</doc>
<doc id="13451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13451" title="Circulatory system">
Circulatory system

The circulatory system is the body system that brings blood to the body. The heart and all blood vessels make up the circulatory system.

Blood vessels that take blood away from the heart are arteries. Arteries get smaller as they go away from the heart. When arteries get very small, they are called "arterioles".

Blood vessels that take blood towards the heart are veins. Veins get bigger as they go toward the heart. The smallest veins are called "venules".

Capillaries go between arteries and veins.

So blood moves: heart->artery->arteriole->capillary->venule->vein->heart. This is called circulation. There are two different "circulations" in the circulatory system. The "systemic circulation" is how blood goes to most of the body. The "pulmonary circulation" is how blood goes through the lungs. (Pulmonary means about the lungs.)

Blood that comes from the left side of the heart is full of oxygen and nutrients. Nutrients are substances that your body needs to live, like protein, fat, carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals. This blood brings the oxygen and nutrients to your body.

This blood in "systemic" arteries that is full of oxygen and nutrients is "systemic arterial blood". It is sometimes just called "arterial blood". 

The biggest systemic artery in the body is the aorta. This is the large blood vessel that comes out of the heart. Smaller arteries branch off from the aorta. These arteries have smaller arteries that branch off from them. The smallest arteries turn into arterioles.

The smallest blood vessels are capillaries. Systemic arterioles turn into capillaries. The blood from arterioles goes into the capillaries. There oxygen and nutrients go out of the blood into the tissue around the capillaries. The blood also picks up carbon dioxide and waste from the tissue. The network of capillaries that brings blood to an area is called a "capillary bed".

On the other end of the capillary, it turns into a venule. Venules are the smallest veins. Veins take blood back to the heart. As veins go back to the heart, they get bigger. The biggest systemic veins in the body are the vena cava. There are two vena cava. The "inferior vena cava" takes blood from the lower part of the body to the right side of the heart. (In medicine, inferior means below.) The "superior vena cava" takes blood from the upper part of the body to the heart. (In medicine, superior means above.)

This same movement of blood happens in the "pulmonary circulation".

The blood that the vena cavae takes to the heart is full of carbon dioxide. It has much less oxygen than (systemic) arterial blood. The right side of the heart pushes the venous blood into the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery takes blood to the lungs. In the lungs, the blood goes through the "pulmonary capillary bed". (The capillaries that are in the lungs.) Here it gets more oxygen. It also drops off carbon dioxide. (This is the opposite of what happens in capillary beds in the rest of the body. In the systemic circulation blood drops off oxygen and picks up carbon dioxide.)

After the pulmonary capillary bed, the blood goes to the pulmonary veins. This "pulmonary venous blood" now is full of oxygen. The pulmonary veins take blood to the left side of the heart. Then the blood goes to the systemic circulation again.



</doc>
<doc id="13455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13455" title="Pink triangle">
Pink triangle

The pink triangle is one of the two big symbols of the LGBT community. The other is the rainbow flag.
The pink triangle was first used in Nazi Germany to mark homosexual prisoners. There was also a "black triangle" that marked "anti-social women". Many but not all of these women were lesbians. Jews wore the famous yellow star of David. If a prisoner was both Jewish and gay, he would wear a yellow triangle overlapped by a pink triangle, creating a star of David.

Homosexuality was illegal in Nazi Germany under a law called "Paragraph 175", which made it a felony (a "very serious" crime). About 100,000 people were arrested, with about 50,000 sent to prison. Some were sent to mental hospitals. Some were castrated (had their testicles removed). Some homosexual men were also sent to concentration camps, especially Jewish homosexuals. Between 15,000 and 600,000 homosexual men were sent to concentration camps. Most of them died there. We are not sure of the real number. Prisoners who were Jewish and homosexual may not have been counted as homosexual.

Homosexual prisoners were treated worse than other prisoners. Their death rates were higher than other "anti-social" groups. One story by a gay man who lived in a concentration camp shows how it was. Pierre Seel was sent to the Schirmeck concentration camp. The Nazis said a public execution would happen. A man was brought out. Seel saw that the man was his 18 year old lover. The Nazis took all the clothes of Seel's lover and put a bucket over his head. Then Seel had to watch as the Nazis let German Shepherds (dogs) maul his lover to death.

After World War II, homosexual men were still not treated well in Germany. The law continued. It was used to hurt homosexuals and to put them in prison. Many spent years in prison.

The pink triangle observes the memory of the homosexual people who died in the Holocaust. It is important not to ignore these deaths. The killing of homosexuals and that this still happened after WWII is the "secret" story of the Holocaust. Using the pink triangle symbol puts these victims in the public view. It is in respect for those who died.


</doc>
<doc id="13456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13456" title="Chat room">
Chat room

A chat room is a virtual place on the Internet where people can get together and "talk" using text. People use programs like IRC to join a chat room and type messages or send pictures to other people. There are also other programs called instant messengers to stay in contact with friends and other people. Websites on the Internet often have types of chat rooms built into them, and lots of chat rooms also use webcams.

Chat rooms are normally used as tools to talk with people that are far away, but many people still use them to talk to people who live near them, because it's very convenient.



</doc>
<doc id="13458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13458" title="Alan Wake">
Alan Wake

Alan Wake is a video game made by Remedy Entertainment. It is a "thriller" game and was voted best game of E3 in 2005. It was released on Xbox 360 in May 2010. A planned PC version was canceled.



</doc>
<doc id="13459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13459" title="Devil May Cry 4">
Devil May Cry 4

Devil May Cry 4 is the latest video game in the series of "Devil May Cry". It was released on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on February 5 2008. Before to this game, all "Devil May Cry" games had only been released on the PlayStation video game consoles. This one was the first game to be relased on the Xbox as well as The PlayStation. In January, gamers could download a demo at the Playstation Store and Xbox Live Marketplace .

One big difference in this game is that Dante is no longer the main character. A new character named Nero is the new hero. Lady and Trish from older games return in this game. This game has more new characters, such as Kyrie, Credo, Agnus, Gloria, and Sanctus and new demons and bosses for the player to fight.

This game is just like the first games. It follows the usual "Devil May Cry" gameplay using a variety of melee and long-range weapons


</doc>
<doc id="13460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13460" title="50 Cent">
50 Cent

50 Cent (also known as "Fiddy", "Fitty" or "Fifty") is an African American rap singer. He was born in Queens, New York on July 6 1975. "50 Cent" is his public name, but he was born Curtis Jackson. Growing up, he never knew his father and his mother was murdered when he was just 8 years old. He grew up mostly in a neighborhood called STP. He learned how to play basketball and football. He got shot nine times in STP. Also, before he was a rapper he was a drug dealer.

50 Cent burst onto the rap music scene in 2002, with the help of his fellow gang boss Rijaan D.M. (The same person who helped him release track "Wanksta"). Since then, he has sold millions of records. His debut album, "Get Rich Or Die Tryin'" broke music records and went multi-platinum. In the summer of 2005, 50 Cent had a fight (or ""beef"") with The Game, a rapper in his G-Unit group. After this, The Game left G-Unit, and made some diss songs about 50 Cent. 50 Cent answered with songs like "Mr. Potato Head" and "300 shots" featuring G-Unit. 50 Cent was also the first to sign onto a joint effort between Eminem's Shady Records and Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment. 50 Cent also mentions Rijaan D.M. in many of his tracks e.g. the famous 'Candy Shop', 'Down On Me FT Jeremih' etc. As a teen 50 Cent's role model was Tupac Shakur (Rapper) so, from the start his ambition was to be a gangster rapper.




</doc>
<doc id="13464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13464" title="Subject (school)">
Subject (school)

Subjects are the parts into which learning can be divided. At school, each lesson usually covers one subject only.

National curriculum 

Primary school subjects. Ages 4-11


Secondary school subjects. Ages 11-16
The most common subjects at school are:

Other subjects include: 



</doc>
<doc id="13466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466" title="Learning English">
Learning English

Learning English is what people do when they want to learn how to speak and listen to the English language. People who want to learn English usually also learn to read and write at the same time.

A lot of people learn English at school, where English is a common subject.

A lot of people also want to spend their own personal time to learn English. They might know no English when they start, or they might have learned some English at school.

There are two ways to learn English outside of school:


Many people join lessons like school lessons but at learning centres where any people can go, no matter their age. In such a centre they will join a class fitting their existing level of learning of English, so that they will be in a group for the teacher to help them learn.

An example of this type of learning is at the classes by the British Council. Here is their website.

Other people try to learn English on their own, or in a less formal setting than in a group of people with a teacher.

People might meet with others who are trying to learn English, in order to practice their standard of English when speaking.

People can also listen to radio broadcasts in English, or watch television programmes in English to help them improve their listening ability. A popular channel to listen to the radio on is broadcast by the BBC, called the BBC World Service. 

People can also study English by reading books, or listening to English courses on recorded CDs or cassettes.

A popular way to learn English in the modern world is to make use of the internet where there are many websites that can help learners. The BBC World Service has a free website for people who are learning English as a second or foreign language called BBC Learning English.
There are many online community forums such as Englishforums, where many people meet to learn English. Questions are answered quickly even with help from volunteer teachers from all over the whole world.



</doc>
<doc id="13467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13467" title="Ethical tradition">
Ethical tradition

An ethical tradition is a group of things that one group of people think are right and wrong. People believe that these things are right and wrong because other people think that way and they have thought that way for a long time.

An ethical tradition can be like a set of laws because most people agree with it and only do what it says is right. However an ethical tradition is not normally written down and is not enforced by a police force.

The branch of philosophy called ethics is not the same as an ethical tradition. This is because ethics is about asking questions and not just thinking what other people think. However some ethical philosophers want to know why people follow ethical traditions. They also want to know what ethical traditions are the same for different groups of people. This type of ethics is sometimes called the science of morals.


</doc>
<doc id="13469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13469" title="Dildo">
Dildo

A Dildo is a sex toy which is used in place of an actual penis for sexual reasons. Both men and women can use dildos, most often for putting into the vagina or anus, but also sometimes instead of oral sex, etc. Since dildos are very simple toys, they can be and are used in many different ways. They are capable of producing arousal to the point of an orgasm, and for this reason, dildos are commonly used for masturbation. Dildos are also used during sex with more than one person, though.

Dildos come in many different shapes, sizes, and materials (most often glass, plastic, rubber, metal, or wood) for different looks and feels, different uses, and to provide the best stimulation for different people. Some dildos vibrate and pivot for extra pleasure: they are called vibrators.



</doc>
<doc id="13472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13472" title="Alien">
Alien

Alien can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="13473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13473" title="Bioinformatics">
Bioinformatics

Bioinformatics is the study of large amounts of biological information. Mostly, it focuses on molecules like DNA. It is done mostly with the help of computers.

As species of living things change over time, the DNA contained in their cells change, from evolution. If we can extract the information from living things today, and compare them to each other, we can see which living things are most closely related, much like comparing two editions of a book, the most similar can be thought to be the most closely related in time. Doing this, biologists can construct family trees, or phylogenies. By stitching together all the trees, a grand tree connecting all living things can be made, this is called the "Tree of Life".
Bioinformatics is intergration of mathematical, statistical and computational method to analyze biological, biochemical and biophysical data.

Anything a cell could possibly want is stored in its DNA. When a cell wants to build a protein, it finds the appropriate piece of DNA, makes a copy of it (called RNA), and uses the instructions in the copy to make the protein. 

Proteins are the 'machinery' of a cell. They can perform many functions like transportation, structural support, movement and metabolism. Proteins are made from "amino acids". There are twenty different amino acids that are used to build millions of different protein molecules. 

The principle of bioinformatics is that these molecules can be studied by using computers to analyze the DNA, RNA, and amino acid sequences from which they are created. Because there are so many different molecules, the best way we have of understanding how the entire system works is to use bioinformatics.

Chemists have developed ways to understand the shape and behavior of small molecules, using mathematical analysis. They might use computers (or even just a pencil and paper) to study these molecules. Also, the DNA contained in just one cell of an organism is far too large to be read by any person, and to compare the DNA between two (or more) organisms, be they in the brother and sister, or of a completely different species, requires comparing large amounts of information for small (or large) differences. Computers are far better suited to such comparisons, and computer programmers have worked with biologists to create very very large databases to store all the DNA information that has ever been learned.
Biochemists today are trying to answer these questions about every single cell in the body:



</doc>
<doc id="13476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13476" title="Economy of India">
Economy of India

The economy of India is the 11th largest in the world with a GDP (a year's goods and services) of $568 billion (U.S.). If you consider PPP (how much that money can buy in India compared to other countries), the economy is fourth largest (worth $3.319 trillion U.S.). The growth rate is 8.9% in Quarter 2 of 2010. However, that is still only $3100 (considering PPP) per person per year.

India's economy includes agriculture, handicrafts, industries, and a lot of services. Services are the main source of economic growth in India today, though two-thirds of Indian people earn their living directly or indirectly through agriculture. In recent times, due to its large number of well-educated people who can speak English, India sells a lot of computer programs to other countries.

For most of India's independent history, it had strict government controls in many areas such as telecommunications (communication over long distances), banking and foreign direct investment. Since the early 1990s, India has slowly opened up its markets by reducing government control on foreign trade and investment.

The social and economic problems India faces are the increasing population, poverty, lack of infrastructure (buildings, roads, etc.) and growing unemployment. Although poverty has gone down 10% since the 1980s, a quarter of India's citizens still cannot pay for enough food.


</doc>
<doc id="13479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13479" title="Testicle">
Testicle

Testicles are parts that are found on the bodies of male creatures. Male mammals, including men, have two testicles, supported in a sac of skin below the penis called the scrotum. Along with the penis, testicles are called reproductory organs or "sex organs". Only males have testicles; females have ovaries.

Testicles are a type of organ called glands. Like other glands, testicles make "chemical substances", called hormones that keep the body working. Testicles also make sperm which can join with ova to make new life. (Read more about this in "What do testicles do?") 

Most glands, like women's ovaries, are inside the body, but testicles are outside the main part of the body. This is because the testicles work better if they are cooler than the inside of the body. In cold weather, testicles pull up nearer to the body to keep warm. 

The testicles are firm, oval-shaped glands. Most testicles match in size, but some testicles are much larger or smaller than others. Normal sized testicles are between 14 cm³ to 35 cm³. 

Nearly all men have one testicle that hangs lower than the other one. Scientists think this may be so that they do not hit against each other. It can be either the left or the right that hangs lower, but in 85% of men, it is the left one. The left testicle usually descends first and this may affect which one hangs lower. 

The testicles hang in the scrotum by the spermatic cord. They are outside the body because they need to be cooler than the temperature inside the body, in order to make sperm. If a man's testicles get cold, they are automatically pulled closer to the body. The "spermatic" cord is tightened by the cremasteric muscle. When this muscle "contracts" (pulls tighter), the cord gets shorter, which pulls the testicles closer to the body. If the testicles are too warm, the cremasteric muscle "relaxes" (gets longer.) This lowers the testicles to keep them cooler. This is how the testicles are kept at the right temperature. This is called the "cremasteric reflex". (A reflex is something your body "automatically" does without you thinking about it.)

There are other uses for the "cremasteric reflex" apart from making the testicles the right temperature. Stress can also make the "cremasteric reflex" work. If a male human or mammal gets into a fight, then its testicles are in danger. They automatically pull up close to the body. The "cremasteric reflex" also happens during sexual intercourse.

Testicles have two important jobs in the body. They are part of two of the body's systems, the endocrine system which keeps the body working, and the reproductive system which makes new life. 

Testicles are a type of organ called glands. (This makes them part of the body's "endocrine system".) The human body has many types of glands. The job of glands within a body is to make "chemical substances", and put them out into the body's system. A body has lots of different systems that keep it in good working order all the time, and that also provide for a body's special needs. Some of the body's special needs happen when a person gets angry, frightened or sick, or if the person wants to have sexual intercourse. At these times a body uses more of some types of "chemical substance", so the glands that make them work harder. 

Testicles make several types of chemical substances. They are not simple chemicals, but are very complicated and very important to life. Making these substances is controlled by the pituitary gland which is a small gland in the brain.

One substance made by the testicles is a type of substance known as a hormone. It is the hormone testosterone. Testosterone is important in a male person's body, because it makes him grow into a man and feel like a man during puberty. (Women's bodies make some testosterone too, but they make more female hormone called estrogen.) 

As well as being chemical-producing glands, testicles are gonads. (This makes them part of the body's "reproductive system".) Apart from "hormones", the other important substances made by the testicles are spermatozoa, which are generally just called sperm. (The word "sperm" is plural, so you do not add a "s" and say "sperms".) The "sperm" are tiny living cells which can join with another cell, called an "ovum" (or egg) inside a female, to start a new human life. Scientists call making sperm "spermatogenesis". Boys begin making sperm when they start growing into men, at a time of life called puberty. 

Women do not have testicles. The glands in their bodies that do the same sort of jobs as testicles are called ovaries. Women have two ovaries, but unlike testicles, ovaries are inside the body, on either side of the uterus. They release "ova" (or eggs) and "female hormones". Ovaries and testicles are sometimes called "gonads". 


Size in animals

Studying animals can help in understanding things about people. In mammals, testicles can be very big or very small in relation to the size of the animal itself. The size has to do with the amount of sperm that the male animal needs to make. Some types of male animal generally only have one sexual partner at a time and are called monogamous. Some types of animals generally live in a herd or flock where one male will have many female sexual partners. These males are called polygamous. More sperm is needed by "polygamous" males than by "monogamous" males. "Polygamous" males generally have larger testicles than "monogamous" males. The testicles grow larger to make more sperm.

Size in men

Most men's testicles are from 14 cm³ to 35 cm³. This is a measure of volume. Sometimes Doctors need to measure a man's testicles to see if there is a problem. Doctors can measure the volume of testicles in two ways: 


Sometimes the size of a man's testicles changes.

Some reasons why testicles get smaller are: 

Some reasons why testicles get bigger are: 


The most important diseases of testicles are:

Loss and injury 

Most boys are born with two testicles in the scrotum. The testicles have formed inside the baby's body, but moved into the scrotum before the birth. Sometimes one or both the testicles are still inside when the baby is born. Sometimes an operation is needed to fix this. 

If a testicle is injured, it is extremely painful. Sometimes testicles get crushed. Sometimes it is necessary for a doctor to remove one or both the testicles. This operation is called an orchidectomy. If a man loses a testicle, a doctor can put a "testicular prosthesis" (false testicle) into the scrotum. It looks and feels like a testicle. 

If a male loses both his testicles it called castration. Because the man cannot produce sperm or testosterone, it has a big effect on the man's life. Because he cannot make sperm, he cannot have children. And because he cannot make the male hormone testosterone, he becomes less like a male. He may lose some of his muscles, and put on weight. A man who has lost his testicles may take testosterone medicine so that he does not have these changes. 

Until the 1700s in Europe, and more recently in some countries, there was a custom to castrate young male slaves and boys. Young slaves were castrated so that they could be used as guards over the wives of rich men. It meant that the wives would not fall in love with their guards. Sometimes young boys who had beautiful singing voices were castrated before puberty. This meant that their voices would stay high all their lives. These singing men were called castrati. 

Castrating animals 

It is very common to castrate (remove the testicles from) male domestic animals. Male dogs and cats that are castrated do not fight so much, and do not stray around looking for females to mate with. 

Male horses are usually castrated so that they become more calm and safer to ride. A castrated male horse is called a gelding. A male horse that is not castrated is a stallion. 

Male animals that are used for meat are generally castrated because it makes them fatter and also makes them quieter to keep because they do not fight each other. Most male cattle are castrated.

Testicles can also be called "testes" or "gonads".

There are many slang words for testicles, like balls, nuts, bollocks, nads, crown jewels, etc. Slang words are other names that are used for fun or to be "vulgar" (rude).



</doc>
<doc id="13480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13480" title="The Screwtape Letters">
The Screwtape Letters

The Screwtape Letters is a book written by author and Christian scholar C. S. Lewis. It appeared in installments in "The Guardian" newspaper and was later published as a book in 1942. It is a series of letters written by a devil named Screwtape to his apprentice and nephew Wormwood. The letters are filled with advice for the young demon on how to tempt men. Screwtape tells Wormwood how to undo the work of God and work against Him.

"The Screwtape Letters" were greatly popular. It was published in 1941, and after that, it has sold very well around the world. Because it is funny and easy to read and understand, many people read it easily and have been influenced by it.

The two main characters that are inside the letters are Wormwood, a demon that has the job of leading his "patient" away from Christianity (or at least making him a useless Christian). Screwtape is Wormwood's uncle and a "high" demon.

Screwtape, a devil and the uncle of Wormwood, helps Satan and everything he stands for. He calls the devil "our Father". He also fights against everything God stands for, calling God "The Enemy". Wrong to him is right and right to him is wrong.

Ironically, even though many of the things he says are Biblically wrong, some of the things he says are, according to the Bible, true. He talks about the glory of heaven when the patient is taken up there, though he does not understand why God gives them to men. He admits to Wormwood that he does not know about his Enemy well enough. Screwtape cannot understand love and says in Letter 18 that he believes that God must have another, hidden reason to save men, since everybody is selfish and cannot love.

Screwtape is always afraid that God will step in and stop Wormwood's temptations. Screwtape says that when the patient prays to God for help, God always comes, so Screwtape is fearful.

At first, Screwtape thinks the patient's soul will go to hell. However, he is angry when Wormwood makes more and more mistakes. He feels that God is "winning the battle".

The book is set during the early years of World War II. This was the time when it was actually written. Lewis was living in England during the war. He went through many of the things that the patient goes through in "The Screwtape Letters". Many of his first readers did, too. The book, however, focuses more on the spiritual battle between demons and their patient.


</doc>
<doc id="13482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13482" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 1">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 1

This is a copy of old messages from . They were moved here on August 11, 2005 AD.

Should there be a rule as to how many words a sentence in an article which is not a quote should have? I see that many articles already approach typical Wikipedia prose with paragraph-long sentences. Perhaps a limit of 20-25 words per sentence would be useful. 11:06, 19 Dec 2003 (UTC)

I have changed difficult words into several words which say the same. Many difficult words are links. When should we simplify words which are links? 

The "pipe trick" may help, or maybe it does not. Should we try to have many difficult words remain in the article as links to articles which explain them?

Or would it be better to have them at the end of the article? I do not mean that we would have them as a list of links. The idea I got was that maybe we should have the words which might be links as a list of short explanations (a glossary). I will show what I mean below:


I mean explanations like that. Then we could have simple words in the article. The more difficult words that have to do with the matter of the article, would still be with it. -- 12:21, 19 Dec 2003 (UTC)

Most of the articles I have come across on this Wiki seem to really belong in Wiktionary. People seem to think that "simple" means give a dictionary definition because "simple" readers won't be able to understand anything more complex. Can I just copy and paste articles such as Numeral or River into the Wiktionary? Why may they not be appropriate for Wiktionary? Are they appropriate here?-- 17:47, 25 Jan 2004 (PST)

Shouldn't the name of this Wikipedia be "Easy English" rather than "simple"? 11:49, 27 Jan 2004 (UTC)

Do you have a link to "Plane English" or "Plain English" ?
-- 19:28, 3 Aug 2004 (UTC)

Plain Talk: "RudolfFlesch wrote a book called TheArtOfPlainTalk" -- discussed at http://CommunityWiki.org/FormOfWriting

Simple English, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_English

Have you ever thought of making this a Wikipedia for Kids? There are many versions of Wikipedia right now so it may seems that everyone would contribute to their language version. I'm just wondering cuz it seems that an article like doesn't seem to be good for a K-6 kid, but the Simple English version would be great for them. Thoughts? 

Btw, previews are appearings on the bottom instead of the the top of the page. =/

In my opinion there is a big difference between a dictionary for kids and one for simple english speakers:
-- 11:19, 7 Aug 2004 (UTC)(de:Benutzer:Babakus)

But its kind of scary having a kindergartener having the power of the edit button, isn't it? I'm just shaking at the possibilities. ;-) -- 23:09, 13 Mar 2005 (UTC)

There's in the making. 02:19, 7 Jun 2005 (UTC)

I copied and edited a page at en.wikipedia to Platypus. I thought a standard message for such copied might be useful. It can be added by typing <nowiki></nowiki> at the end of the article. It looks like this:

What do other people think about this?

I'm not sure. I don't like having tags on too many articles, and this could apply to nearly all our articles here. I tend to acknowledge it in the edit summary when I create the page. Personally, I think that's enough, especially as we have a link to the English version in the section anyway. 02:29, 7 Apr 2004 (UTC)

The way I see it, english and simple english are not really separate languages. Therefore, I'd expect articles for the two to be tightly coupled. An example where this is currently not the case is movement (simple). There are no interlanguage links to and back (Hey, why is that extra colon required in <nowiki></nowiki>, I thought this is not necessary on talk pages?). Would it be possible to automatically link "simple:movement" to "en:movement" and back? 

Hello. Thank you for the good idea of making a Wikipedia in simple English. I am currently working on a new Wikipedia, the Tok Pisin wikipedia. In order to facilitate the work of users-to-come, I am using bilingual frames with English next to Tok Pisin. Whenever there is an article in simple English, I use it rather than the article in English. 
But for the article on Buddha, there is no simple English article yet, and the English article is far too complicated. Could you make it more simple, and more explanatory about Buddhism? Please see: 
http://tpi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buda 
Thank you all in advance, 
Milaiklainim ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk%3AMilaiklainim )

Hello all, thanks for the article on Buddhism and on Buddha. I will use them in the Tok-Pisin Wikipedia (for the moments, links to the Simple Wikipedia are not set, but I will update them soon). I hope the Simple will grow; one reason is that it could well help less-favored languages to find a basis for their Wikipedias. 
For the moment I would like an article on Nelson Mandela. Count on you guys! Best -- 09:36, 14 Apr 2004 (UTC)

From the page:

I think that is a good idea, just there might be trouble regulating it. However it might limit the direct copying from English. Any further comment? 20:03, 9 Apr 2004 (UTC)

Hello all. I am the non-English-native user who suggested to have (more or less) three levels of simplicity/complexity (see above). It seems that you like the idea. My suggestion now is to work on a sample article or example article to try it, and refine it until we have a better idea how it could work. I would be glad to participate. -- 01:03, 15 Apr 2004 (UTC) PS: I'd like an article on Mandela, could be this one, but it could also be a more commun thing than a biography.

Is there a proper simplicity policy at the moment?
Where do simple and complex meet? 13:39, 12 Apr 2004 (UTC)

It's just we need to do something about complex articles that are just copied from "en" also there are ones that have just been written in complex English straight on here.
Some of these articles can be simplified quite easily, but there are others that are too long or far above our understanding. Do we then delete the article? Or do we do something else like placing a MediaWiki notice?
For example:

If we go down that route, should we also have a page?

I personally think we need to use an established standard for "simple" English, such as Ogden's Basic English. Saying "simple" without specifying HOW simple is like saying in a recipe "Beat the mixture until it's ready" without saying how one can tell when the eggs are "ready". --

Very true, and that has been discussed a lot. There are problems with precise definitions though. Mainly the inconvienience stopping people contributing. Also, some subjects cannot be described using only Basic English, so less simple language has to be used - a tiered system has been discussed and seems popular, but involves writing more articles, so takes longer. -- 15:32, 17 Apr 2004 (UTC)

We don't seem to have an agreement on a restricted vocabulary. There appears to be a consensus that Basic English by itself is too limited. Also, the approximately 80,000 words understood by a native English adult speaker is too many. A great many of them overlap each other as unnecessary synonyms. I propose we use the Simple Wiktionary to attempt to come to a general agreement on the vocabulary. I suggest that the definitions use Basic English and pictures as much as possible. When there is agreement that a word is too complex, its listing should state this and propose an alternate word or phrase to use as a substitution. Any comments? 25 Jan 05.


As mentioned on my user page -- 10:48, 17 May 2004 (UTC) I (along with some mates) have put up a locked text only copy 1 May of the Simple pedia here along with a locked main en. They are really just there for people to compare with the evolving versions and I intend to add a copy every month or so. Without them the only way I could find to compare progress is via the page history which was a bit laborious. However am in discussion with Angela about possible non-compliance with licence which needs to be fixed. -- 10:48, 17 May 2004 (UTC)

Update 30 July. The Simple WikiPedia 1 May 04 has been joined by Simple WikiPedia 24 July 04. There are also several copies of en English WikiPedia 24 April 04 24 July 04 and following a request at Le Bistro a French static copy is being added shortly. Couple of minor bugs still being fixed. -- 12:37, 30 Jul 2004 (UTC)
A French WikiPedia to follow shortly following a request on Le Bistro. Done here -- 11:56, 1 Aug 2004 (UTC)

Now resolved. See 

As of the 22nd May, this wikipedia is the 34th biggest by official article count, however we are 65th in bytes/article. We seem to have got into a habit of writing stubs, and not expanding them. Does anyone else see this as a problem? -- 13:02, 29 May 2004 (UTC)

Do we have a policy on which spellings, etc., to use? I would expect that most people learn British English, so we should stick to that. Comments welcome. -- 17:13, 3 Jun 2004 (UTC)

This is my first time on this wiki. I have read the Useful pages and how to edit. I also read the earlier questions here. But I'm still confused about how long or complex articles should be. For example, the "Dog" article in En: wiki is very long; the Dog article here is very short. Is that on purpose? Or is it simply that no one has expanded the one here? It might help transplanted wikipedians like me to have a Good Example of one or two En: articles that you think are well done here. 19:18, 16 Jun 2004 (UTC)

I will be running the as to update and fix interwiki links. Until I get approval to run it here, it will be highly supervised and run without a bot flag. If there are any problems, contact me at wikipedian at gmail dot com. 00:54, 29 Jun 2004 (UTC)

How about a system like that at English WP:Article of the week, where a topic is nominated to be a 'focus' for the week. The only problem is that there doesn't seem to be enough editors working here often enough. I think there could be a real push to get English editors to work on Simple. Maybe a campaign to get people who create a new article at the main WP to also create a matching Simple article here? Even if they don't become regulars here, they will have added at least one page. Considering that anyone at the main English WP has the potential to be able to write at the Simple WP, there could be a strong collaboration set up between the two. Instead of Simple being seen as "just another language I don't understand". Prehaps simply getting a prominent list of needed Simple articles at the main WP (Community Portal) could kick start the effort. I need to think through some ideas more closely first, but I wanted to see if anyone else has similar proposals. 06:29, 5 Jul 2004 (UTC)

I've taken this to the Main WP Village Pump for more exposure. 07:31, 5 Jul 2004 (UTC)


How can I see a list of all the currently available boilerplate messages in Simple? Is there a way to spit out a list of Template:'s? en has a nice (manually maintained) listing, but I'm grasping at straws for what's available here. Thanks! | 02:46, 7 Jul 2004 (UTC)

Is there a quick and clever way to move images along with their descriptions from en over to simple? We're going to end up using many of them, and it gets old saving a copy to disk, uploading it, and adding the description. Quick fix, anyone? | 05:13, 7 Jul 2004 (UTC)

This was left on the contact us discussion page on simple. Is there a standard text for explaining what we are about? -- 14:24, 16 Aug 2004 (UTC):
Alvaro Labuto Filho
labuto@uol.com.br
labuto@brturbo.com.br

I'm Mariusz Marcel Ernst
I'm living in Warsaw Poland, Tukana str. 7
code : 02-843 tel. (+4822)644-15-57
mariusz_ernst@o2.pl
Yo, get by it.

There is still no normal link to regular English on the main page. I don't know how to edit those boxes or I'd do it myself; the lniks at the top and at the bottom don't have it, and someone has just put an informal link in the middle of the page. There *is* a link to "Simple English" !

It would be nice to have a different image from the regular Wikipedia image at the top left of the page; as both are in English it's hard to see which one you are now on when switching between the two. 20:03, 14 Sep 2004 (UTC)

As there seems to be no separate page for discussing language questions only, here's how I see the problem of using "book of knowledge" and not "encyclop(a)edia".


What do other people think? Should we use only words from "simple" wordlists? Do other people also find that harder to understand sometimes? 07:25, 27 Sep 2004 (UTC)

I found just now this wiki has no logo (see the left-top). IIRC it is only enough update a image as wiki.png ... how about sharing English Wikipedia logo or we had better to remark "Simple" for our logo? -- 16:57, 10 Oct 2004 (UTC)

Here's another couple. Did someone change the captions on the others? They now appear in reverse order to me. I prefer the one which is now A, as the others look quite cluttered. 11:05, 11 Oct 2004 (UTC)

It seems E is the favourite. How could we change the logo to E? Or does someone have a good reason not to? 10:29, 25 Oct 2004 (UTC)
I see no use in continuing to indent, so I'll just comment here. It seems that none of these has been implemented, or that perhaps another was chosen. I like A, because it is consistent with all of the other Wikipedias. For instance, the text is in the same place, and it says thesame thing. No other language Wikipedias have "Free (Language) Encyclopedia" because it is evident by what language it is written in, making the "English" part unnecessary. Also, the text on B is too small. My only question is would it be "free simple" or "simple free". I guess it depends what type of Wikipedia it is. -- 1:10pm 2-25-05 (MST)
-- 20:10, 27 Feb 2005 (UTC)


On English wikipedia you can create new pages by searching for them - if the page doesn't exist there's a link saying "create an article with this title". That isn't possible on Simple - you can only create a new page by making a link to it on another page. Could that be changed? 15:17, 11 Oct 2004 (UTC)

Hi. I accidentally moved to Pages to delete. I meant to move it to . I need help fixing this. 02:23, 31 Oct 2004 (UTC)

I've started a discussion about replacing the term "disambiguation" with something simpler. I'd welcome your comments on . -- 23:03, 7 Dec 2004 (UTC)

I think the sandbox message is unsimple. Content? Experiments? Formatting? Permanently? 10:28, 3 Jan 2005 (UTC)

I think the attempt to create a simple english version of wikipedia is excellent. Maybe using short sentences is valuable for someone who does not speak english well. Obviously it is very difficult for someone who speaks english natively to create text which is easily understood by someone who doesn't. However, I think there is one important aspect of language simplicity which has not been mentioned -- and that is the use of idioms. If text is created without using very many idioms, it will be much easier for readers to look up words in a dictionary and understand the english text.

Good Luck with this effort.
I noticed all the "Most Wanted pages" are dates. Does this reflect a view we ought to have a complete set of date pages here or is someone putting links on all the dates in the belief that we do? -- 14:14, 28 Jan 2005 (UTC)

The SQL dump from http://download.wikimedia.org/archives/simple/ (20050209_old_table.sql.bz2) seems to have a lot of indecipherable/junk data under the "old_text" attribute of the schema, of course after decompressing and running the sql script. Has anyone come across this?

At first, I thought the .bz2 file could have been corrupted during donwload. But thats not the case since I've downloaded the same file more than once with no luck. Is the source file itself corrupted or am I the only one facing this problem? Any thoughts??

-- svarada

I'm having an argument concerning the Basic English Word List.
Please have a look: 
Since the list is of British origin I think it would be fair to include both U.S. and U.K. spellings (there are only a few words with variants). U.S. and U.K. spellings are both acceptable on Wikipedia. Is there any policy/guideline concerning this matter? 08:01, 26 Feb 2005 (UTC)

Are there any plans to make "simple" versions of other Wikis? Like French? *hint hint*
Would anyone mind simplifying the English text on http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/WQ/2/Covers for the WQ cover. -- 

This is "Simple Talk". Here, we talk about Simple English Wikipedia. This is a wiki, too, just like Wikipedia. So, anybody can edit it. To edit well, we must talk about editing. Should we use many big and strange words here? Should we use long, difficult sentences? I don't think so. 

Is Simple a gift to people who have some trouble with Standard English? Or does Simple belong to us all? Maybe people who read and write Standard English well have trouble writing Simple English. Maybe people who have trouble with Standard English can write Simple English well. 

My wife is Chinese. She has a lot of trouble with Standard English. She might like to read this Simple English Wikipedia. It might help her in many ways. She might like to write something, too. If she joins the community, she will want to join in the talk, too. But she will not understand the talk on this Simple Talk page. 

Let's keep our talk simple. 07:58, 31 Mar 2005 (UTC)

This is not a joke. 13:09, 1 May 2005 (UTC)

Looking at the list of languages (at the bottom of the main page), I notice that certain languages in the first section (largest wikipedias) such as Spanish and Italian are in the second section of the English Wikipedia's list. Is there a different criteria for the Simple list (not based on number of articles)? 10:43, 3 Apr 2005 (UTC)

The is an attempt to get the Wikimedia community to join forces in tackling problems that affect all our projects. The current COTW is to create a standard multilingual manual for the MediaWiki software. The help pages should be linked from on , our Wikimedia-wide coordination wiki. If you would like to improve the help pages in Simple English, please see the . 20:03, 3 Apr 2005 (UTC)

Hello, I m catalan speaker, i just discovered this simple wikipedia. I had seen it many times before as links but i couldnt understand its purpose until i got here. A wikipedia for non-native english speakers is a great idea. But i think I another one: as many people use (or might use) this wiki to learn, why not have a correction section? Non native will be able to collaborate and then good speakers will correct artcicles. This would have three benefits; 1) it will make simple wikipedia grow 2) it will animate contributors from many parts of the world, so artciles would not be as englishcentric as they are now; it would be the wikipedia of the world, in the most spoken language of the world 3) it will help people to learn

Ah, catalan wikipedia is http://ca.wikipedia.org. We are trying to make it bigger. We could use a lot of simple articles!

Hi, I am making audio recordings of the pronunciation of words. Example; To include this in a good way in your wiki I need to know what your audio template is and how it works. When I know it i, and many others, can put it directly inside articles on your wikipedia.

Can some one please put your audio template on this page;

Greetings, 

Are you trying to make a Newspeak encyclopedia?

Regarding the use of Disambiguation pages and listings in articles, I've found that alot of people are putting links to confused terms in the 'See Also' sections, rather than the standard Wikipedia style of at the top in italics which I think most find alot easier to use as you can see right away if you are on the wrong page. Also, is there a word or phrase being used instead of 'Disambiguation'? As its hardly simple. - 04:48, 1 May 2005 (UTC)

Hello. I was wondering if anybody can look at the articles that I have made to see if they are simple enough. They are Silvio Berlusconi, while I have added more things to Belarus, President of Russia and Kofi Annan. 18:56, 9 May 2005 (UTC)

I was noticing in the entry for temperature that the number systems were defined, but that the simplest usages of those numbers weren't mentioned. 

Something as simple as we use smaller numbers for temperatures that are colder, and larger numbers for hotter temperatures. When the temperature is really cold we might use a negative number. When it is getting colder outside we say the temperature is going down. We might say the temperature will be high tomorrow if it is going to be hot.

What are the criteria for leaving out useful information? When do we go beyond definitions to teaching English usage? (Or would that be "the usage of English speakers"?)

Example is Nancy ajram, where in the article the name is correctly capitalized as "Nancy Ajram". How can you "get to" the page name to update it?

You can't (but a sysop can delete it). But what you can do is to redirect/move the page to the correct name. 

Hello,

The stewards election has started on . Anyone can vote provided that he has a valid account on meta with a link to at least one user page, on a project where the editor is a participant, with at least 3 months participation to the project. Stewards can give sysop right on projects where there are no local bureaucrate. Please vote ! 14:40, 18 May 2005 (UTC)





There are three categories (, and ) that I think will soon become a giant mess if we don't start to organize them. Would anyone have any objections if I split them into centuries and decades like at ? -- () 05:20, 21 May 2005 (UTC)

If anyone interested, at , we're discussing the format of the year pages (maybe try to make some consistency across the board for them?). I would love to hear any other opinions. -- () 19:18, 2 Jun 2005 (UTC)

Well, it's a massive work in progress, but well, if anyone here reads this, can users please put years articles, birth and death categories either into the proper place or just simply into the main categories? I'm tired of having to hunt and look around for articles that people have created all over the place without any link to anything else. -- () 18:25, 29 July 2005 (UTC)

Actually, this is more of a general question in regards to the structure and purpose of this wiki. Is this wiki simply going to consist of the same organizational structure as the English one, but with parallel articles that are simplier in language? Or is this going to form its own structure (one that's also simplier) in terms of templates, categories, articles, etc. If the latter, we need to stop creating massive page dumps like 2004. One of the problems with these kinds of pages (beyond the obvious problem of simplification) is that it forces this wiki into a structure (especially since people also copy the category links over) exactly like the English one. -- () 08:34, 29 May 2005 (UTC)

Is there any information on when this encyclopedia was made and general facts? 20:02, 29 May 2005 (UTC)

Please look at article Chinese dragon and then look at the source (edit page). I can make one image show up that definitely comes from the media commons (I searched there to find it). But two other images found on the for Chinese dragons and elsewhere don't seem to work. 

Any ideas why? Are these other images actually stored inside English Wikipedia and can't been referenced from here?

I realize that I won't make any friends by appointing myself grammar cop policeman, so please understand the following as not directed at any individual(s). Also because we're all human and make the occasional typo or slip-up, this point is directed at myself as much as anyone else.

Because this Wikipedia is so useful for English-learners, we all need to make sure we follow standard English (regardless of the regional variant) to set a good model. There are two classes of error (or non-standard form) that seem to recur by my observation:


I'm sure there are others I haven't noticed, so feel free to edit and add to this list. Granted, both of these show up commonly in informal written English by native speakers. I actually believe that the use of "it's" will become standard in a couple more decades (much as "If I was..." for the past subjunctive is considered by many to be standard) because so few people observe the present standard. But AFAICT as a refence work an encyclopedia should use present-day standard written English, not advocate its change. Comments?

Thanks, 16:55, 14 Jun 2005 (UTC)

Oh, and my "pet peeves" are the mis-use of "your", "you're", and "you". Sometimes I send emails to web page writers saying "You're going to be embarrassed when you reread your writing.", and wonder if they understand what I mean. The other problem I see often is people dropping the 'r' from 'your', as in "I hit you car!". I have even seen people then start dropping the "'re" from "you're", as in "You going to be mad!" (as guess because they sound the same - once you have started doing the wrong thing for one case you can then start doing it wrong in both cases). 01:19, 11 July 2005 (UTC)

Why can't I request to be an admin? The page seems to be gone. ()

I want to get a permission to run a bot in the simple english wikipedia. I plan to connect interlanguage links between simple& wikipedias. I hope it will be helpful. -- 14:01, 18 Jun 2005 (UTC)

I have blocked this bot for not doing as was described, and for flooding recent changes. ChongDae said he was only adding iw links to ko: from simple, but the bot was actually adding iw links to all articles and links to multiple wikipedias. See . Too aggressive. -- 17:10, 22 Jun 2005 (UTC)

"See for more discussion" -- 14:12, 26 July 2005 (UTC)

How can I read an english article in its translated version?

Why couldn't there be a simplified version of other languages? This way people learning those languages will be able to read them more easily. "unsigned post by -- ()"

Right now, there is a set up for stubs but no articles in it. The template, does not automatically add the category. I think this is preferable. However, is Category:Stub really the best category? Following the English Wikipedia style would be . ( 05:21, 12 July 2005 (UTC)

Since the Main Page doesn't actually incorporate any images, it may be helpful to modify this website's stylesheet to prevent vandals from adding inappropriate images to that page, as recently did, for example. This can be done simply by hiding all images on the Main Page. The following steps require the use of :


Obviously, this method isn't foolproof; those using Netscape Communicator or any skin other than MonoBook, as well as users with CSS disabled aren't protected, and no one is protected against inappropriate ASCII art. codice_4 We use a weaker variation on this at the Vietnamese Wikipedia, where the main page does include several images. It's always possible to obfuscate (bury) the image-hiding code, so that vandals have a hard time figuring out why their special contributions don't show up.

 –  06:39, 21 July 2005 (UTC)

Can anybody come up with a simple word for "humid"? I settled on "wet", but that doesn't really mean the same thing. This is in my Bahrain article. 22:57, July 21, 2005 (UTC)

Hello. I would like to hear other parson's opinions here though I posted the same to a page of User:Netoholic.

A point is that; I strongly disagree to deletion of 

06:02, 23 July 2005 Netoholic deleted "Sam Cooke" (pure copyvio from http://www.manythings.org/voa/03/030126pa_t.htm)

Who owns contents of http://www.manythings.org/ legally? You should see "Terms of Use & Privacy Notice" from a formal VOA website as saying: You are welcome to use any material that is published by voanews.com. All text, audio and video material produced exclusively by the Voice of America is public domain.

I am afraid that we are NOT allowed to reuse any part of public domain materials.
-- 08:10, 23 July 2005 (UTC)

How do you come up with the idea that the materials in question have come from ""the Manythings" website? Thank for very much for informing me there is a website which reuses materials of Voice of America .

You are one of administrater of this Wikipedia. Then, you should know that works done by US Federal Government can NOT be copyrighted as clarifing States Laws. In the meantime, I will report to Voice of America that her all materials are Copyrighted exclusively by ""the Manythings" website.

I think you should delete the Voice of America Word Book and also others retrieved from VOA website, as long as you defenf copryrights of the Manythings website in question. -- 00:26, 24 July 2005 (UTC)

Thank you, RickK. To make it simple, I exlpans again. In the past I uploaded a public domain material here on Sam Cooke from http://www.voanews.com/specialenglish/Archive/a-2003-01-24-3-1.cfm . But it was deleted later by an administrator as saying it was a clear violation of copyrights by Manythings.org. That was a whole story in short. -- 01:12, 30 July 2005 (UTC)

There’s someone proposing a policy to close some minor, slow-growing, “hopeless” wikipedias on the wikimedia meta-wiki. (see ) This proposal is the enemy to the openness of the whole wikipedia community. I come here to inform you to express your opinion there. I think it's OK to use your own language on the talk page. Thank you. --05:43, 25 July 2005 (UTC)

I just came across another place where I had a big urge to make a word a link, but not to an 'obvious' definition or related word, but instead to a "usage" definition.
If someone has been reading English a lot, they are familiar with a writer showing an abbreviation or acronym next to a long full name, and then using only that short word later in the article. But if someone is not familiar with this, they will wonder what that '(IDDM)' thing is! So I wanted to do this:
I linked the word to a definition of how it was being used. The hope is that a confused person will see the definition of acronym, return to the article, look at 'IDDM' and discover that it really is an acronym of the four words before that. Of course, when they have seen this done once, they will know to look for this same 'acronym' thing again. But we are trying to help English learners, and that must include some stylistic or usage examples.

Is this an appropriate thing to do? When can it be done? 17:32, 30 July 2005 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="13483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13483" title="Multiplayer video game">
Multiplayer video game

Multiplayer is a term for games, usually video games, meaning more than one person can play it. It was popularized by next generation gaming systems like Nintendo 64 that allowed four joysticks to be plugged into a home console unit for head-to-head play, competitive, or cooperative play.


</doc>
<doc id="13485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13485" title="Weird Al Yankovic">
Weird Al Yankovic

Alfred Matthew "Weird Al" Yankovic is a parody musician, singer, songwriter and comedian. He is known mainly for his parodies of popular songs. Yankovic was born in Lynwood, California, USA on October 23, 1959. He started playing accordion when he was seven years old, which is what he plays most of the time. He has also starred in a movie called "UHF" (1989) and briefly had a children's show, "The Weird Al Show". He has made parodies of songs such as "American Pie" (his ever popular "The Saga Begins"), "Ridin'" ("White and Nerdy"), "Bad" ("Fat"), "Like a Virgin" ("Like a Surgeon") and "Gangster's Paradise" ("Amish Paradise").

He also has a band to help him perform his songs. His band members are: Jim West, guitar, Steve Jay, bass, Rubén Valtierra, piano, and Jon "Bermuda" Schwartz, drums.

Yankovic has also written a children's book titled "When I Grow Up".


</doc>
<doc id="13486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13486" title="Supertramp">
Supertramp

Supertramp is a British rock group. They were created and managed by a Dutch millionare and were very popular in the 1970s. The members of Supertramp included Rick Davies and Roger Hodgson, who wrote most of the songs. The band's best-known songs include "Dreamer", "Give a Little Bit", "The Logical Song", "Take the Long Way Home", and "It's Raining Again". 


</doc>
<doc id="13487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13487" title="Tissue">
Tissue

Tissue can mean different things.



</doc>
<doc id="13488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13488" title="Template:Reproductive system">
Template:Reproductive system


</doc>
<doc id="13489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13489" title="Template:Endocrine system">
Template:Endocrine system


</doc>
<doc id="13490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13490" title="New Mexico">
New Mexico

New Mexico is a state in the United States of America. It is considered part of the American Southwest and is bordered by Texas to the east, Oklahoma to the northeast, Colorado to the north, and Arizona to the west. The northwest corner of the state also touches Utah. This area is known as the Four Corners because four states meet there. The state is called Land of Enchantment / Tierra del Encanto

New Mexico became a state on January 6, 1912 and became the 47th state accepted into the United States. The state capital is Santa Fe. New Mexico's population is 1,819,046 and most of the people live in the biggest city, Albuquerque.

New Mexico is home to 18 Native Americans tribes, across the state. 
Old Native American ruins, such as Chaco Canyon and Bandelier, were home to thousands of 
Native Americans hundreds and thousands of years ago. 

The first nuclear weapon otherwise known as the atomic bomb was teated at Trinity test site at White Sands in southern New Mexico. 275 square miles are covered in white gypsum sand.
The Kasha-Katuwe Tent Rocks National Park has large rocks made of pumice and tuff. The rocks are shaped like teepees and have a large rock, a "hat" that sits on top.

Roswell New Mexico is home to the yearly UFO festival.
Albuquerque hosts a Balloon Fiesta every year. Nearly 1 million people visit with over a thousand balloons participating. About 50 states and 20 countries come to Albuquerque for this event. Albuquerque is home to the Sandia Mountains and a 2.7 mile long tramway, the world's longest cable car. 

The Gila National Forest is 3.3 million acres of wilderness open for camping, hiking and fishing.
Carlsbad Caverns is also one of the most famous places in New Mexico. It has beautiful rock sculptures and is known around the world for its amazing sights.



</doc>
<doc id="13491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13491" title="1471">
1471



</doc>
<doc id="13492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13492" title="Sting">
Sting

Gordon Matthew Thomas Sumner (born October 2, 1951), better known as Sting, is an English singer and musician. He first became famous as a member of the band, The Police.


</doc>
<doc id="13493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13493" title="Starbucks">
Starbucks

Starbucks is a chain of stores that sell coffee. A chain is many stores owned by the same company. Many of the stores look the same, and all stores sell the same items, often at the same prices.

Starbucks started in Seattle, Washington in the United States in the early 1970s. There are over 9,000 Starbucks stores all over the world. Most of these stores are in the United States. Some American cities have many Starbucks stores. Starbucks is known for growing its number of stores fairly quickly, often to a point where there are two Starbucks within a few blocks of each other. They also sell different teas and ice creams.


</doc>
<doc id="13494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13494" title="Frasier">
Frasier

Frasier is an American sitcom starring Kelsey Grammar. The series aired from 1993-2004. It was a spin-off from "Cheers". Story based upon the intellectual, mild mannered psychiatrist and his life. Revolving around his personal life and hilarious interpersonal interactions with his father (Martin Crane, an ex-cop with a walking impediment), his eccentric brother Niles, who is also a shrink, his father's attractive English health care worker Daphne Moon & a host of folks he regularly runs into / works with at the radio station (including his producer Roz Doyle) where he hosts a community psychiatric call-in show. 

Cast :


</doc>
<doc id="13495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13495" title="Spin-off">
Spin-off

A spin-off is something new that comes from something already present. It is often used for video games, movies, and television programmes, but it can also be used when talking about companies or organisations. A spin-off may have the same people, places, themes or ideas as the original.



</doc>
<doc id="13496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13496" title="Pedophile">
Pedophile

A pedophile is an adult or adolescent who is 16 years of age or older, who is sexually attracted to children who have not reached puberty, generally those below 14. Some argue that a pedophile has a mental disorder called "pedophilia". Some people with pedophilia have sex with children or use children in a sexual way. This is called "child sexual abuse". Most, but not all, children who are sexually abused, are abused by people who have pedophilia. Some adults have pedophile feelings but do not act by sexually abusing children. 

Medical researchers do not know how many people in the population are pedophiles. This is because it is hard to study people's feelings and desires unless they actually show that they have those feelings. A second reason is that when an adult or teenager sexually abuses a child, people often call the abuser a "pedophile", but it is possible that the abuse happened for a different reason. A person is only a pedophile if they are sexually attracted to children. If a person sexually abuses a child to frighten or punish them, for example, then it may not be true pedophile behaviour. However, most child sexual abuse is committed by pedophiles. 

Not all pedophiles feel or act in the same way. Since the 1880s, psychologists have studied and shown that different pedophiles might act in different ways. Here are some of the ways:


Some studies have shown that those pedophiles who are attracted only to children, if they act on their feelings and abuse a child, often abuse many more victims than those pedophiles who also have sex with adults. 
The people who abuse children or teenagers are often known to them, and are not strangers. Around half the adults who commit child sexual abuse against strangers also abuse their own children. 

As of 2008, most doctors believe that pedophilia cannot be cured. The current approach to deal with pedophiles tries to change the behaviour of the pedophile. It does not change their sexual attraction. Using this treatment, some sex offenders can be prevented from offending again.


</doc>
<doc id="13500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13500" title="Igneous rock">
Igneous rock

Igneous rock is one of the three main rock types, the others being sedimentary and metamorphic rock. 

Igneous rocks are rocks formed from molten magma. The material is made liquid by the heat inside the Earth's mantle.

When magma reaches the surface of the Earth, it cools down to form a rock. Common examples are lava, tuff and basalt. Also, the rock may slowly cool down under the surface. An example is granite.

The upper 16 km (10 miles) of the Earth's crust is composed of about 95% igneous rocks with only a thin, widespread covering of sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.

Igneous rocks are geologically important because:


Magma is a complex high-temperature fluid substance. Temperatures of most magmas are in the range 700 °C to 1300 °C. Magma can get forced into adjacent rocks (intrusion or "plutonic"), or forced out to the surface (extrusion or volcanic) as lava, or blown out in exposions which include rock pieces ("tephra").

Magma is made up of atoms and molecules of melted minerals. When magma cools the atoms and molecules rearrange to form mineral grains. Rock forms when mineral grains (often crystals) grow together. Granite, diorite, gabbro and basalt are a few types of igneous rock. Quartz is one of the chief minerals produced by igneous action; it is made of silica (SiO), the most common molecule in igneous minerals. Some examples of igneous volcanic rock are pumice, obsidian (volcanic glass), and scoria and much more. 

Most of the minerals that make up igneous rock are of these types:

The first six are silicates. Oxides are mostly of iron.



</doc>
<doc id="13501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13501" title="Bauxite">
Bauxite

Bauxite is the main ore of aluminium. It is mostly aluminium oxide.

Bauxite is the most important aluminium ore. It is largely made up of the minerals Gibbsite Al(OH), Boehmite γ-AlO(OH), and Diaspore α-AlO(OH), together with the iron oxides Goethite and Hematite, the clay mineral Kaolinite and small amounts of Anatase TiO. It was named after the village Les Baux-de-Provence in southern France, where it was first discovered in 1821 by geologist Pierre Berthier.

There are two main kinds of bauxite ores: carbonate bauxites (karst bauxites), and silicate bauxites (lateritic bauxites). Carbonate bauxites were discovered earlier, and occur mainly in Europe and Jamaica above carbonate rocks such as limestone and dolomite.

The lateritic bauxites occur in many countries of the tropical belt. They were formed from various silicate rocks such as granite, gneiss, basalt, syenite, and shale.

Forming bauxite demands intense weathering conditions with very good drainage. Bauxite deposits with highest aluminium content are frequently located below an iron-bearing surface layer. In lateritic bauxite, the aluminum hydroxide contained in lateritic bauxite deposits is almost entirely a form called gibbsite.


</doc>
<doc id="13502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13502" title="Chalcopyrite">
Chalcopyrite

Chalcopyrite is the main ore of copper. It is mostly copper iron sulphide. It is also known as peacock ore or peacock copper. It is often mistaken for bornite.


</doc>
<doc id="13503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13503" title="Hematite">
Hematite

Hematite or haematite is the main ore of iron. It is mostly iron(III) oxide.
It has a metallic luster. It has no cleavage, but does have a fracture. The fracture is irregular and uneven. Hematite on the hardness scale is 5 to 6. It has a bright red to dark red streak. To find the streak, you take a piece of unglazed porcelain and take the mineral and run it across the plate. The colors vary from metallic gray to a dark, rough and earthy red color. Hematite has a chemical formula of FeO.



</doc>
<doc id="13504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13504" title="Galena">
Galena

Galena is the main ore of lead. It is mostly lead(II) sulphide.

Galena is one of the most common and widely used sulfide minerals. It crystallizes in the cubic crystal system often showing octahedral forms. It is often found with the minerals sphalerite, calcite and fluorite.


</doc>
<doc id="13505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13505" title="Bob Dole">
Bob Dole

Robert Joseph Dole (born July 22, 1923) is a former United States Senator from Kansas. He was the Republican leader of the Senate from 1985 until 1996. In 1996, he ran against Bill Clinton for President, and lost. After that, he retired from politics at age 72.

In 1976, President Gerald Ford chose him to be his Vice Presidential choice for the November, 1976 election. They lost the election so Bob Dole never became Vice President.

Shortly after the 1996 election, he famously appeared in a Pepsi commercial, saying, "I just cannot win". He has also done commercials for Viagra.

Bob Dole has a habit of talking in the third person, or using his own name instead of "I" when he talks about himself. This habit is the basis for many jokes about Dole.

An episode of "The Simpsons" had Bob Dole in it. The episode takes place during the election of Bill Clinton and Bob Dole, and they get abducted by aliens.


</doc>
<doc id="13507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13507" title="Lionel Richie">
Lionel Richie

Lionel Richie (born June 20, 1949) is a popular American pop singer, most famous for his 1980s songs. Richie started his career with The Commodores; between him and the band, "Three Times a Lady" is their best remembered effort.

His self-titled debut album was one of the biggest music successes of 1982. More successful was its follow-up, "Can't Slow Down".

In 1984, as a surprise guest, he sang "All Night Long" to a worldwide audience of over two billion at the Los Angeles Summer Olympics.

In 1990, three years after he retired, Richie adopted Nicole Escovedo. Now Nicole Richie, she has recently appeared on Fox's "The Simple Life" along with Paris Hilton.

The singer returned to the music industry in 1996 with "Louder than Words". Another album of his, "Renaissance", came out four years later.


</doc>
<doc id="13509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13509" title="Walt Disney Pictures">
Walt Disney Pictures

Walt Disney Pictures is a movie studio from the United States that makes family-friendly movies with a G and PG rating from the MPAA, like The Fox and the Hound. The only non-G/PG rated Disney movies are 2003's "Pirates of the Caribbean", which was given a PG-13 rating, and its sequels, which were also rated PG-13.

Walt Disney Pictures started as a Disney division in 1983. Before that, Disney movies were released under the Walt Disney Productions name.

Part of the Buena Vista Motion Pictures Group, the studio also has Walt Disney Feature Animation and DisneyToon Studios.




</doc>
<doc id="13510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13510" title="Scrotum">
Scrotum

The scrotum is the bag that holds the testicles in male mammals. It is made of skin and muscle and is found between the penis and anus. It is often covered in pubic hair and becomes tight when the male is aroused.

The function of the scrotum is to keep the testicles less warm than the rest of the body. Human testicles work best at 36.8 degrees Celsius (98 degrees Fahrenheit) when normal body temperature is 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit). Higher temperatures than 36.8 degrees will damage the sperm inside the testicles.

The temperature is controlled by moving the testicles closer to the abdomen when they are too cold, and away when too hot. This is done by muscles contracting or relaxing. This lifts and lowers the testicles inside the scrotum. They can also be lifted by tightening the anus and pelvic muscles.

The best temperature varies between species, but usually it's a bit cooler than body temperature. This means that the testicles always have to be held outside of the body.

Another explanation is to protect the testes from jolts and being crushed inside the body. Animals that have slow movements - such as elephants, whales, and moles - have internal testes and no scrotum.



</doc>
<doc id="13511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13511" title="Ministry (band)">
Ministry (band)

Ministry was an American industrial metal band from Chicago, Illinois. It was started in 1981 by musician Al Jourgensen. After 27 years and 11 albums, Al disbanded the group in 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="13512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13512" title="Indo-European">
Indo-European

Indo-European refers to culture and language from the western Indian subcontinent- such as the modern Indian English and the Pakistani English and Europe. Languages from these places share a common heritage. For example, Sanskrit was an early Indo-European language.


</doc>
<doc id="13513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13513" title="Ingot">
Ingot

Ingots are bars of metal, formed by pouring the molten metal into a mould. This is done after it has been purified from the ore. Ingots are usually thought of as gold.


</doc>
<doc id="13514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13514" title="Westlife">
Westlife

Westlife are an Irish boy band. Its members are Shane Filan, Kian Egan, Nicky Bryne, and Mark Feehily. Bryan McFadden left the band on March 9, 2004 to give more of his time to his family life with the British TV personality and former Atomic Kitten member Kerry Katona, although he has subsequently separated from her and changed the spelling of his first name to 'Brian'.

The band has been very successful since it was started and is popular in both Ireland and United Kingdom, with hits like:


Not every single of theirs have gone to No. 1 in the UK:


The band have also won ITV's Record of the Year competition on a record four occasions, with "Flying Without Wings", "My Love", "Mandy" and "You Raise Me Up".

Westlife did not manage success in America, although their debut single, "Swear It Again" was a minor hit on mainstream radio and MTV. Its video made MTV's Total Request Live briefly, and it managed to chart on the Billboard Hot 100 in the summer of 2000, going up to No. 20 on the chart.

Their debut American album was also released in 2000, and although they have not released another one there since, that has not stopped thousands of Americans from becoming Westlife fans. And beyond Europe and the USA, Westlife's fan base is truly global, including Canada, Latin America, Southeast Asia, and Australia.

Like most other boy bands, Westlife was primarily marketed to teenage girls, but they had a large following among gay men (approximately 20% of Westlife fans are male), and they have performed numerous times at gay venues in the UK.

It was announced in October 2011 that Westlife will split in 2012.



</doc>
<doc id="13516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13516" title="Ulcer">
Ulcer

An ulcer is a kind of open wound. Ulcers can be on surfaces of the body. They can be on skin. They can be mucous membranes like the surface of the stomach or inside the mouth.

Ulcers start when the top layer (surface) of skin or mucous membrane is hurt. This top layer dies. When it dies, the skin or mucous membrane and opens. This leaves an open sore called an ulcer.

Ulcers can be from infection with germs. Ulcers can be from pressure on a part of the skin. Ulcers can be from substances that will burn skin or mucous membranes. When acid makes some stomach ulcers this is from burning by the acid. Ulcers can be from cancer. Ulcers can be from diseases of blood vessels. If not enough blood goes to a body part, it can get an ulcer. Stress can also sometimes cause ulcers. They are also noted to hurt a lot. 


</doc>
<doc id="13517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13517" title="Category:User languages">
Category:User languages

This is a category for finding users who speak different languages, along with how well they can speak them. To find out more about this system, and how to add yourself to these categories, see .


</doc>
<doc id="13518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13518" title="Peptic ulcer">
Peptic ulcer

A peptic ulcer is an ulcer of the stomach or duodenum. The duodenum is the first part of the small intestines. It is the tube that food goes through when it leaves the stomach. "Peptic" means talking about the stomach.

Gastric ulcers are peptic ulcers in the stomach.

Duodenal ulcers are peptic ulcers in the duodenum.

Most ulcers are caused by an infection from bacteria. This bacteria is called "Helicobacter pylori". 90% of gastric ulcers and 75% of duodenal ulcers are from "Helicobacter pylori" infection.

Other things can make ulcers worse. But these things are less important than "Helicobacter pylori". These other things are:


A symptom is a change in the body that tells someone that they have a disease. The biggest symptom is pain in the stomach. Pain is usually in the top of the abdomen below the ribs. Some people also feel pain go up to the chest.

Other symptoms are:

Diagnosing is how doctors see if someone has a disease. They do this by running tests. Peptic ulcers are diagnosed by three ways:


The best way is "endoscopy". But this costs more money. Endoscopy is done by a medical specialist called a "gastroenterologist" (a doctor who knows much about the digestive system.)

A good thing about endoscopy is finding other diseases if there is no peptic ulcer. The symptoms of peptic ulcer can be from other diseases. Endoscopy can diagnose these other diseases.

The most important treatment is to stop the "Helicobacter pylori" infection. This is usually done with antibiotics and can now also be done through the use of natural products. 

Antibiotics are medicines that kill germs like bacteria. Usually three different antibiotics are used, and because the "Helicobacter pylori" bacteria is so resistant, successful treatment is not guaranteed. The number of people turning to natural remedies is increasing. Natural remedies have none of the side effects common to antibiotic treatment.

It is also important to make less acid in the stomach. There are two types of medicines that Doctors normally prescribe to stop the acid. These are called "antacids":
Both of these medicines make the cells in the stomach stop making acid. There is a problem in unnaturally stopping the production of acid, because acid is vital to ensure proper digestion of foods. When a patient stops taking antacids, the stomach naturally starts producing acid again and usually more than normal because the antacids had unnaturally stopped this process. The result is that there is now too much acid, the whole problem starts again. It is considered better and safer to control acid levels by consuming water and by eliminating foods that may cause excessive acid. 

To stop peptic ulcers people must use antacids "and" antibiotics, or a natural product. The strategy is to kill off the "Helicobacter pylori". Controlling the acid levels let the open ulcers in the stomach lining heal quicker.

Once the "Helicobacter pylori" infection is removed, the ulcer should heal. It can come back if the person is reinfected with "Helicobacter pylori" again.


</doc>
<doc id="13519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13519" title="Symptom">
Symptom

Symptoms are changes in the human body. Symptoms are ways that people feel or ways that their bodies appear. These are things that show if a person has a disease. 



</doc>
<doc id="13520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13520" title="Medical diagnosis">
Medical diagnosis

A medical diagnosis is when a doctor finds out what is making someone sick. Sometimes doctors can diagnose a sickness by asking the person questions and looking at the person's body. Sometimes doctors do "tests". Tests can mean taking a small bit of blood, urine, or tissue which is sent to a hospital laboratory where it is tested. X-rays are another form of test. Tests are ways to see how the body is working.

When a diagnosis has been made, the doctor may recommend treatment.


</doc>
<doc id="13521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13521" title="True Jesus Church">
True Jesus Church

The True Jesus Church is a Christian church. It was started during the early 20th century. It is an independent Church. It split from the Pentecostal movement in China. The pentecostal movement is an evangelical movement within Christianity. This group practices faith healing, speaking in tongues, baptism by immersion, feet washing and the Saturday Sabbath. By 1949 they claimed 120,000 members, meeting in 700 churches. Although banned in the People's Republic of China in 1958 along with all the other Christian churches, they were permitted to reopen in 1985 and since then they have experienced rapid growth and have spread nationwide, although they are strongest in Jiangsu, Hunan and Fujian provinces. They strongly emphasis daily prayer, both private and public, and engage in vigorous evangelism .

Currently their churches are found in forty eight countries and six continents. Followers of the Church believe that God has only a divine nature, so they therefore reject the idea of the Trinity.

Christian holidays were often near the dates of pagan ones. This is also true for Easter, Christmas and Good Friday. The feast of Sol invictus was on the 25th of December. It was a very important holiday in Ancient Rome. Because of the pagan origins of the holidays, the True Jesus Church does not celebrate Easter and Christmas. The movement has between 1.5 and 2.5 million followers.


</doc>
<doc id="13525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13525" title="Pokémon (video game series)">
Pokémon (video game series)

Pokémon is a Japanese video game franchise created by Satoshi Tajiri for Nintendo in the 1990s. It is known as "Pocket Monsters" in Japan. It is now made up of animated television programs (anime), Japanese comic books (manga), trading cards, and toys but, most importantly, the video games. There are currently 493 monsters. Pikachu is the most well-known. When the idea was invented, there were only 150, which was upgraded to 151 (including Mew) when the Blue version in Japan was released. In the United States and Europe, the number of Pokémon was 151 from the beginning. There are now over 400 altogether.

The Pokémon games involve making decisions about what to do and when to do it. They allow the player to catch the monsters, train them to make them better and attack other monsters so that they get better abilities and possibly evolve into different Pokémon. It is also possible to trade Pokémon with a friend. The Pokémon in the battles never bleed or die; they only faint. All Pokémon love human beings, except for Shadow Pokémon - the doors to their hearts have been artificially closed. The game's slogan in the U.S. was "Gotta catch 'em all!", although now it is not used officially any more. The Japanese slogan is "Let's get Pokémon" Over one hundred million (100,000,000) of the games have been sold so far, not counting the ones released for the Nintendo 64 and the Nintendo GameCube. This makes it the second best-selling video game series of all time (after Nintendo's Mario series).

Seven versions of the animated television series exist, from 1998 until now on Kids WB and Cartoon Network. Additionally, nine full-length movies have been made since 1999.


The first games, released in 1998, were "Pokémon Red and Blue", which unexpectedly became big hits and are still among the best-selling video games of all time. They followed the adventures of the player, a Pokémon trainer who catches, raises, and battles with Pokémon, collects badges from the 8 Gym Leaders, explores all over Kanto (the region), and trades Pokémon with other people who have the game by using the Game Boy's Game Link Cable. Later, a sequel to "Red" and "Blue" was released: "Pokémon Yellow". In this game, the player's character design is similar to Ash Ketchum (from the anime.) Also, instead of the Pokémon given to the player at the start of "Red" and "Blue" (the player can choose Bulbasaur, Charmander, or Squirtle) in "Yellow" the only possible choice is Pikachu, which represents the Pokémon Ash started with in the anime.

When Nintendo realized how popular "Red", "Blue", and "Yellow" had become, they decided to support the production and release of more games. After "Yellow" came "Pokémon Gold and Silver", released in 2000, which had a total of 251 catchable Pokémon, as opposed to only 151 previously. A sequel to the two games was released, "Pokémon Crystal", which had several new features that were not on "Gold" and "Silver": Pokémon had animated sprites when they came into battle, there was a subplot within the games relating to the different letter shapes of the Pokémon Unown, and there was a new building called the Battle Tower, where players could battle very strong Pokémon to win items and set records. Once the player has beaten the Elite Four, they can go to Kanto, the region in "Red", "Blue", and "Yellow".

In 2003, "Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire" were released. They were the first "Pokémon" games on the Game Boy Advance, and this upset many players because they could not trade Pokémon with "Red", "Blue", "Yellow", "Gold", "Silver", or "Crystal". However, there were 135 new Pokémon, bringing the total to 386. There were many new features, like a PokéNav (a new item used for many ingame tasks), many more kinds of Poké Balls, a far bigger region (Hoenn) than in previous games (Kanto and Johto), and a Battle Tower different from the one in "Crystal". Players could also create Secret Bases, small hideouts hidden in trees and rock walls.

Later in 2004, "Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen" were released. They did not take place in a new region, and they did not have any new Pokémon. They were simply remakes of "Pokémon Red and Blue", adding a new "extra region" called the Sevii Islands, and a few new features. However, they made it possible for players of "Ruby" and "Sapphire" to get earlier Pokémon in their games. If a person had "Ruby", "Sapphire", "Colosseum", "FireRed", and "LeafGreen" (which many fans of the games did), they could have all 386 Pokémon, which made many players happy.

In 2005, "Pokémon Emerald" was released. It was a sequel to "Ruby" and "Sapphire". It was the first "main" "Pokémon" game since "Crystal" where Pokémon had battle animations instead of static images. There was also a new place called the Battle Frontier where players could go after they beat the Elite Four. It was similar to the Battle Tower in "Crystal", "Ruby", and "Sapphire", except it was eight different facilities, all with different rules. Players earned Battle Points which could be used to buy items for Secret Bases, items for Pokémon, and other things.

In 2007, "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl" were released. They took place in a new region called Sinnoh. They had 107 new Pokémon, which brought the total to 493. Another noticeable difference from the previous games was that "Diamond" and "Pearl" did not capitalize all the letters in names of Pokémon, people, towns, items, and other things that were important to the games. For example, Lugia would appear as "LUGIA" in previous games, but in "Diamond" and "Pearl" it would just say "Lugia." This cleared up a lot of players' confusion, because many thought that a sentence like "LUGIA is found in the WHIRL ISLANDS" looked unusual. A sequel to "Diamond" and "Pearl", "Pokémon Platinum", has been released in Japan, then it was released in the United States in March 2009. In May 2009 it was released in the UK.

In 2010, "Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver" were released. They did not take place in a new region, or have any new Pokémon. They were simply remakes of "Pokémon Gold and Silver". Like "Pokémon Yellow", the player's Pokémon can follow them. The games come with a pedometer like device, called the Poké Walker, that can let players walk with their Pokémon, and gain Watts, which can be used to fight Pokémon, or dowse for items.



</doc>
<doc id="13526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13526" title="Homer Simpson">
Homer Simpson

Homer Simpson is a cartoon character in the animated television series "The Simpsons". He is voiced by Dan Castellaneta. He first appeared, along with the other members of the Simpson family on The Tracey Ullman Show in the Simpson Short "Good Night".

He is the father of Bart Simpson, Lisa Simpson, and Maggie Simpson; he is also the husband of Marge Simpson. He lives in the fictional town known as "Springfield". 

Homer is clumsy, fat and very lazy. He is also an alcoholic, and is not very smart. He works as a Safety Inspector at the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant. Homer is one of the most popular and famous fictional characters and is thought of as one of the greatest comedic animated characters of modern times.. Although Homer seems selfish, he does actually care for his family. In one episode he entered Lisa in a beauty contest so she could feel better about herself. He is often heard saying "D'oh!" which has become an often used word when things go wrong. He likes to drink beer and is often seen hanging out at Moe's Tavern with his best friends Carl Carlson, Lenny Leonard, and Barney Gumble.

Matt Groening first drew the Simpson family in the lobby of James L. Brooks' office. After he had decided not to do his "Life in Hell" cartoon series, he quickly sketched out his version of a dysfunctional family and named the characters after members of his own family, with Homer being named after his father. Homer's middle initial "J," which was discovered to stand for "Jay", was a "tribute" to Bullwinkle J. Moose from "Rocky and Bullwinkle", a show Matt Groening loved as a child. In a TV Guide poll, Homer was named as the second greatest cartoon character, behind Bugs Bunny.

A five-year study of more than 2,500 middle-aged people in France found a possible connection between weight and brain function, named as the "Homer Simpson syndrome". Results from a word memory test showed that people with a BMI of 20 (considered to be a healthy level) remembered an average of 9 out of 16 words. Meanwhile, people with a BMI of 30 (inside the obese range) remembered an average of 7 out of 16 words. 



</doc>
<doc id="13527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13527" title="Calcium">
Calcium

Calcium is a chemical element. Its symbol on the periodic table (a list of all the elements) is Ca. Its atomic number is 20. (The atomic number says where Calcium sits in the periodic table.) It has 20 protons and 20 electrons(if is an atom, see ion). The most common isotopes are Ca-40 and Ca-44. Its mass number is about 40.08.
Calcium is very important in the human body, It is required for minerals and bones.
Calcium is a soft white-gray metal. It is an alkaline earth metal. It melts at a quite high temperature for a reactive metal. It is a little harder than lead. It has two allotropes. It does not conduct electricity as well as copper, but is much lighter in weight.

It reacts with water to produce hydrogen and calcium hydroxide. It reacts with water very fast when it is powdered. When it is in a chunk, it starts reacting slowly because calcium hydroxide makes a coating that does not dissolve on the calcium. If a little acid is added to calcium hydroxide, it dissolves it, making the calcium react very fast. It burns when powdered to make a reddish flame. This makes calcium oxide. It also makes calcium nitride when heated. It can react with halogens to make calcium halides like calcium chloride with chlorine. 

Calcium forms chemical compounds in the +2 oxidation state. Calcium compounds are colorless. Most calcium compounds are not toxic. They are needed in the human body, actually. They are unreactive as far as calcium ions go. Calcium oxide was used to make limelights, which have a flame heating calcium oxide and makes it glow very bright.

It is the 5th most common element on the earth.

Calcium is not found as a metal in the ground; it is too reactive. Calcium carbonate, also known as calcite, is the most common calcium mineral. 

Calcium ions is very important for all organisms. To stay healthy it is important to eat calcium ions every day. Without enough calcium ions bones can become weak. This is called osteoporosis.

Calcium metal is not used in the human body; it will fizz and make toxic chemicals and flammable gases. Calcium compounds are used, like calcium carbonate or calcium phosphate.

It is important to know how cells work. Many cells have "calcium channels" on their surface. These are openings where calcium ions can enter the cell. The cell is told to act and it opens the channels. Once in the cell calcium ions activates many proteins to do specific things. For example, when it goes into muscle cells, it makes them "contract" (shorten so the muscle pulls.) When it goes into nerve cells, it triggers electrical impulses that send a messages. When it goes into white blood cells it makes them fight germs.

Calcium ions are important to cells and too many calcium ions can be bad. If a cell gets more calcium ion than it needs it can die. This is why the amount of calcium ion in cells is highly regulated. Conversely, not enough calcium ion is bad. Cells must have the right amount to function properly.

Sometimes cells are unhealthy and need to die in for the body to replace them with new, healthy cells. This keeps the whole organism healthy. Cells know when they should die and can trigger reactions to end their life cycles in many ways. When this happens it is called apoptosis, also known as a 'programmed cell death' ("planned" cell death.) One way cells accomplish "apoptosis" by taking in toxic levels of calcium ions.

Calcium is very important for the human body ;)

Bones contain most of the calcium ion in the human body. If we need more calcium for our blood, muscles, or other tissue, it comes from the bones. If we have extra calcium it goes into bones.

Calcium as an element is not found in the human body, just calcium ions in the form of chemical compounds.

Organisms need to keep calcium ion levels very well controlled. High calcium levels are bad, and low calcium levels are bad.

The body controls this by changing
The control of calcium in the body is called "calcium metabolism".

The body controls calcium levels with many hormones. Calcitonin, Parathyroid hormone (acronym PTH), and Vitamin D are the most important hormones in "calcium metabolism". (Vitamin D is a hormone but it is called a vitamin.)

Calcium metal is made by electrolysis of melted calcium chloride. It has to be very hot to melt it. The calcium metal is liquid.
Calcium is used in the reduction of other metals. It can also be used to make alloys with other metals. 

Calcium compounds are also important in chemistry. It is important for making things. It is a part of cement which is needed to make concrete (a hard substance that many buildings are made from.)

Calcium is part of calcium oxide. Calcium oxide is used to make paper, pottery, food, and to purify water (make it good to drink.) Calcium carbonate is used as a calcium supplement. Calcium permanganate can be used as a rocket propellant.

Calcium is toxic as an element. It reacts with water and makes a strong base, calcium hydroxide. Calcium compounds are not toxic unless the anion is toxic. Calcium permanganate is only toxic because of the permanganate, not the calcium.



</doc>
<doc id="13528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13528" title="A Series of Unfortunate Events">
A Series of Unfortunate Events

A Series of Unfortunate Events is a series of thirteen books written for children by Lemony Snicket. They tell the story of 3 unlucky orphans (Violet Baudelaire, Klaus Baudelaire, and Sunny Baudelaire) and their lives after the death of their parents. The main villain of the books is Count Olaf who wants to steal Baudelaires' inheritance (the money their parents left behind). Count Olaf uses many disguises to get their fortune.

In 2004, there was a movie version from Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon movies, starring Jim Carrey as Count Olaf.



</doc>
<doc id="13529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13529" title="Membrane">
Membrane

A membrane is a thin soft layer of material. A membrane separates two things. 

In biology a membrane can be mean two things: a tissue or plasma membrane. Plasma membranes are very small. Tissue membranes are bigger.

A membrane can mean a thin layer of cells or tissue. This layer covers, separates, or lines a tissue or organ. An example is the mucous membrane that is the "skin" that lines the inside of your nose and mouth.

The plasma membrane covers cells. Plasma membranes also divide the cell into different spaces called organelles. Organelles are special areas of the cell that do different work. For example, the nucleus holds the DNA in a cell. The mitochondria make energy for the cell.

Plasma membranes are made of lipids (fats) and protein. The lipids keep the inside of the cell separate from the outside. The proteins do many things. They give the cell messages from outside. They let some things (like glucose, calcium, and potassium) go into and out of the cell. 


</doc>
<doc id="13531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13531" title="Voltaire">
Voltaire

François-Marie Arouet (also known as Voltaire) was a French philosopher. He was born in 1694 and died in 1778.

Voltaire did not like France at the time because he thought that it was old fashioned. He also did not like the church and thought that people should be allowed to believe what they want. However he did not like democracy either and thought that a country needed to be lead by a wise and strong king. Voltaire had to live in exile in England for three years from 1726 to 1729 where these ideas were more common. He liked the philosophy of John Locke.

Voltaire was also a writer. He wrote many books, poems and plays, some of which are still liked today. A lot of his work was against France and the Church. This meant that he was unpopular at first but became more popular towards the time of the French Revolution. When he died, aged 83, Voltaire was a hero of French people. He also studied science and wrote a lot about people and places he knew.

Voltaire believed in God but did not believe in a god personally involved in people's lives, like the Christian god. This is called Deism. When he died in Paris, Voltaire was not allowed to be buried in a church because he did not believe in the Christian god.



</doc>
<doc id="13532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13532" title="Category:1778 deaths">
Category:1778 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13533" title="Category:1778">
Category:1778


</doc>
<doc id="13534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13534" title="Category:1694 births">
Category:1694 births


</doc>
<doc id="13535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13535" title="Category:1690s births">
Category:1690s births


</doc>
<doc id="13536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13536" title="Missouri">
Missouri

Missouri is one of the fifty states in the United States. Its capital is Jefferson City. Its largest cities are Kansas City and Saint Louis. Some other cities are Columbia (which is where the University of Missouri is), and Springfield.

Missouri officially became a state on August 10, 1821.

Missouri's edges touch a total of eight states. It is touched on the north by Iowa; on the east, across the Mississippi River, by Illinois, Kentucky, and Tennessee; on the south by Arkansas; and on the west by Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska (Kansas and Nebraska are across the Missouri River).


</doc>
<doc id="13538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13538" title="South Dakota">
South Dakota

South Dakota is a state in the United States. South Dakota became a state on November 2, 1889. Its capital is Pierre and largest city is Sioux Falls. Other important cities are Rapid City and Aberdeen. Famous attractions include Mount Rushmore, the Black Hills, and the Wall Drug Store. The Corn Palace is also famous, and it is located in Mitchell.

South Dakota is bordered to the north by North Dakota, to the south by Nebraska, to the east by Iowa and Minnesota, and to the west by Wyoming and Montana.



</doc>
<doc id="13539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13539" title="Wimbledon">
Wimbledon

Wimbledon is a suburb in the south west area of Greater London, England. The Wimbledon Championships, a tennis competition, is held there every summer. Also in Wimbledon are New Wimbledon Theatre, and Wimbledon Common, one of the largest areas of common land in London. Wimbledon F.C., a famous football club, started in Wimbledon, then moved to Milton Keynes and changed their name to Milton Keynes Dons F.C.. People live in two different areas. The High Street area is called the "village", and the area near the railway station is called the "town". The High Street area is part of the original Middle Ages village, and the "town" area is modern - houses were first built there in 1838.

People are known to have lived in Wimbledon since the Iron Age when the hill fort on Wimbledon Common was built. At the time the Domesday Book was written (about 1087), Wimbledon belonged to the lord of the manor of Mortlake. The ownership of the manor of Wimbledon changed between various wealthy families many times during its history, and the area also attracted other wealthy families who built large houses such as Eagle House, Wimbledon House and Warren House. The people in the village were either poor people who worked on the land or they were rich and important people. The rich and poor people lived together happily. In the 18th century the Dog and Fox public house became a stop on the stagecoach run from London to Portsmouth, then in 1838 the London and South Western Railway (L&SWR) opened a station to the south east of the village at the bottom of Wimbledon hill. After the station was built, new houses were built near to it, and many people began living near the station. In the second half of the 19th century the amount of people living in Wimbledon grew quickly. At the start of the 19th century there were about 1,000 people living in Wimbledon; then in 1911 there were about 55,000 people. During this time large numbers of villas and terraced houses were built out along the roads from the centre towards neighbouring Putney, Merton Park and Raynes Park.

Wimbledon lies in the south west area of London, south of Wandsworth, and east of Kingston upon Thames on the outskirts of Greater London. It is south-west of the centre of London at Charing Cross. It is considered an rich suburb with a mix of grand Victorian houses, modern housing and low rise apartments. The residential area is split into two sections known as the village and the town, with the village around the High Street being part of the original medieval village, and now a prime residential area of London commanding high prices, and the "town" being part of the modern development since the building of the railway station in 1838.

The area is identified in the London Plan as one of 35 major centres in Greater London.

The population consists around 57,000 adults, the majority in the ABC1 social group. The population grew from around 1,000 at the start of the 19th century to around 55,000 in 1911, a figure which has remained reasonably stable since.

Originally Wimbledon had its own borough of Wimbledon and was within the county of Surrey; it was absorbed into the London Borough of Merton as part of the creation of Greater London in 1965. It is in the Parliamentary constituency of Wimbledon, and since 2005 it has been represented by Conservative MP Stephen Hammond.

Wimbledon Football Club was began in Wimbledon in 1889. In 2002 it moved to Milton Keynes and it 2004 it changed its name to Milton Keynes Dons F.C. Many football fans in Wimbledon did not agree with the move. They decided to start a new club there, which is called AFC Wimbledon.

The club played in the English Football League and won the FA Cup in 1988. It was a professional football club, which means that the players get paid to play.



</doc>
<doc id="13540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13540" title="Mersey Beat">
Mersey Beat

The Mersey Beat or Mersey Sound or Liverpool Sound is the name for a type of music that came out in the city of Liverpool, England in the early 1960s. 

Maybe the first group to be thought of as a part of genre were Kingsize Taylor and the Dominoes. The most famous group of this genre were The Beatles. Other important groups include Gerry and the Pacemakers, The Searchers and the female singer Cilla Black. 



</doc>
<doc id="13541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13541" title="1078">
1078



</doc>
<doc id="13543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13543" title="Category:1248">
Category:1248


</doc>
<doc id="13544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13544" title="Category:1267">
Category:1267


</doc>
<doc id="13545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13545" title="Category:1240s">
Category:1240s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1240s which begins in the year 1240 and ends in the year 1249.


</doc>
<doc id="13546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13546" title="Category:12th century">
Category:12th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 12th century, which began in the year 1101 and ended in the year 1200.

Note that the year 1200 is included in in the 13th century but is actually part of the 12th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13547" title="Category:12th century births">
Category:12th century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 12th century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13548" title="Category:1120s births">
Category:1120s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1120s.

"See also:" .


</doc>
<doc id="13549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13549" title="Category:1150s births">
Category:1150s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1150s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13550" title="Category:1160s births">
Category:1160s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1160s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13551" title="Category:1120s">
Category:1120s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1120s which begins in the year 1120 and ends in the year 1129.


</doc>
<doc id="13552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13552" title="Category:1150s">
Category:1150s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1150s which begins in the year 1150 and ends in the year 1159.


</doc>
<doc id="13553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13553" title="Category:1160s">
Category:1160s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1160s which begins in the year 1160 and ends in the year 1169.


</doc>
<doc id="13554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13554" title="Category:1170s births">
Category:1170s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1170s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13555" title="Category:1170s">
Category:1170s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1170s which begins in the year 1170 and ends in the year 1179.


</doc>
<doc id="13556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13556" title="Category:1140s births">
Category:1140s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1140s.

"See also:" .


</doc>
<doc id="13557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13557" title="Category:1130s births">
Category:1130s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1130s.

"See also:" .


</doc>
<doc id="13558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13558" title="Category:1140s">
Category:1140s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1140s which begins in the year 1140 and ends in the year 1149.


</doc>
<doc id="13559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13559" title="Category:1130s">
Category:1130s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1130s which begins in the year 1130 and ends in the year 1139.


</doc>
<doc id="13560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13560" title="Category:1170">
Category:1170


</doc>
<doc id="13561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13561" title="Category:1166">
Category:1166


</doc>
<doc id="13562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13562" title="Category:1157">
Category:1157


</doc>
<doc id="13563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13563" title="Category:1141">
Category:1141


</doc>
<doc id="13564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13564" title="Category:1133">
Category:1133


</doc>
<doc id="13565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13565" title="Category:1122">
Category:1122


</doc>
<doc id="13566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13566" title="Category:12th century deaths">
Category:12th century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 12th century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13567" title="Category:1120s deaths">
Category:1120s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1120s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13568" title="Category:1130s deaths">
Category:1130s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1130s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13569" title="Category:1150s deaths">
Category:1150s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1150s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13570" title="Category:1160s deaths">
Category:1160s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1160s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13571" title="Category:1180s deaths">
Category:1180s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1180s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13572" title="Category:1190s deaths">
Category:1190s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1190s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13573" title="Category:1180s">
Category:1180s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1180s which begins in the year 1180 and ends in the year 1189.


</doc>
<doc id="13574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13574" title="Category:1190s">
Category:1190s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1190s which begins in the year 1190 and ends in the year 1199.


</doc>
<doc id="13575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13575" title="Category:1199">
Category:1199


</doc>
<doc id="13576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13576" title="Category:1190">
Category:1190


</doc>
<doc id="13577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13577" title="Category:1189">
Category:1189


</doc>
<doc id="13578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13578" title="Category:1167">
Category:1167


</doc>
<doc id="13579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13579" title="Category:1165">
Category:1165


</doc>
<doc id="13580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13580" title="Category:1153">
Category:1153


</doc>
<doc id="13581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13581" title="Category:1135">
Category:1135


</doc>
<doc id="13582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13582" title="Category:1124">
Category:1124


</doc>
<doc id="13583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13583" title="Category:1191">
Category:1191


</doc>
<doc id="13584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13584" title="1766">
1766




</doc>
<doc id="13585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13585" title="The Adventures of Pete and Pete">
The Adventures of Pete and Pete

The Adventures of Pete and Pete was an American television show on the Nickelodeon network in the early 1990s. It was about two brothers with the same first name who grow up together.



</doc>
<doc id="13586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13586" title="427 BC">
427 BC



</doc>
<doc id="13587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13587" title="Motorcycle">
Motorcycle

A motorcycle (or motorbike) is a form of transport to move people from one place to another. It does not have 4 wheels like a car. It has 2 wheels like a bicycle. But it has a motor like a car. A motorcycle is normally driven by one person. One may also take another person with him, on the back of the motorcycle. There are also motorcycles with a sidecar, then 3 people can be transported.

In 1901, the first successful motorcycle was made by "Indian" motorcycles in Springfield, Massachusetts. Since then, many other companies have made them. There are different manufacturers of motorcycle, like Honda, Suzuki, Yamaha. A well known American manufacturer of motorcycles is Harley-Davidson.

Motorcycles are used both for transportation and extreme sports. Since motorcycles can be lighter than cars, they can accelerate more quickly. But it also makes them not as safe as cars, because they do not have a protecting chassis around them like cars. Very often motorcycle-riders are injured heavily in accidents. A motorcycle rider can wear a helmet and clothing that has armor. This special clothing may reduce the rider's injuries in an accident.

In the middle of the last century, motorcycles were used by many as a cheap method of transportation. Many people who did not have the money to buy a car, could afford a small motorcycle. Back then motorcycles were also much slower and with less motor-power. Today, motorcycles are used more as a hobby. Unlike cars, motorcycles do not have a protection against wind and rain. That makes it difficult to drive in winter or at bad weather.

On-road bikes (ones that are allowed on public roads) must have a special type of driver's license to be ridden legally. Off-road bikes are not allowed to be driven on public roads.

Speed and stunts are the main goals for off-road bike sports. Many on-road bikes are much faster than off-road bikes and can be used in sports such as motorbike racing.


</doc>
<doc id="13588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13588" title="1585">
1585



</doc>
<doc id="13589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13589" title="Guinea pig">
Guinea pig

Guinea Pigs are small animals. They are mammals and rodents. Their scientific name is "Cavia porcellus," which is "cavies" "Porcellus" in the genitive. That is Latin for "little pig". Guinea Pigs are not related to pigs and are not from Guinea. They originated in the Andes, studies based on biochemistry and hybridization suggest they are domesticated descendants of a closely related species of cavy . For this reason, they do not occur naturally in the wild.

In many parts of the world, people keep them as pets. In Peru, Bolivia, and several other countries, they are raised for food. The first people who domesticated the animals, did it for food. Besides being a pet and a source of food, in some places people think guinea pigs keep bad spirits away. In Quechua, the language of some the native tribes of Peru, they are called "quivi". The Spanish-speaking people of the region call them "cuy" (plural: "cuyes").

This perception of pigginess occurred in many languages other than English; the German word for them is ', literally "Little Sea Pigs" (sailing ships stopping to reprovision in the New World would pick up stores of guinea pigs, which provided an easily transportable source of fresh meat), the Russian and Polish word for them is similar, "morskaya svinka" (Морская свинка) and "świnka morska" respectively, meaning also "Little Sea Pig" (it comes from archaic use of the word to mean "overseas"). The French word is ', (Indian pig), the Dutch used to call it "guinees biggetje" (Guinean piglet), and in Norway, Sweden and Denmark they are called "" (a combination of the Latin word mare for ocean, and Norwegian/Swedish/Danish "svin" which means pig). In Greek they are called 'indika xoiridia' (Small Indian Pigs ; ινδικά χοιρίδια), and in Portuguese, the term is "porquinho da Índia", literally "little pig of the Indies". In Italian the term is either "Porcellino D'India" (Little Indian Pig) or "Cavia Peruviana" (Peruvian Cavy). However, this perception of pigginess is not universal to all languages or cultures. For example, the common Spanish word is 'conejillo de Indias' (Indian bunny rabbit).

Guinea pigs need large open air cages in which to romp and frolic. They should have a diet of 1/8 cup of high quality pellets like kmshayloft or oxbow. They should also have unlimited grass hay, and at least one cup of a variety of veggies. Guinea pigs like to be held in hand.
Guinea pigs should be kept in cages larger than 7.5 square feet or 10.5 square feet for 2 pigs. They should always have a friend as guinea pigs are social animals.
Breeding guinea pigs are not recommended as the rate of pregnancy complications are very high.

Guinea pig is also slang for a person who is the first to try something. It can also mean the subject of an experiment. This is because guinea pigs are used by scientists to do biology experiments.


</doc>
<doc id="13592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13592" title="1531">
1531



</doc>
<doc id="13593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13593" title="Philip Glass">
Philip Glass

Phillip Glass is a famous American composer who has written many pieces in his life. He was born on January 31, 1937. He has created operas, music for quartets, dances, and much more. He is known for writing minimalist music.


</doc>
<doc id="13594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13594" title="Category:11th century">
Category:11th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 11th century, which began in the year 1001 and ended in the year 1100.

Note that the year 1100 is included in in the 12th century but is actually part of the 11th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13595" title="Category:11th century births">
Category:11th century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 11th century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13596" title="Category:11th century deaths">
Category:11th century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 11th century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13597" title="Category:1030s deaths">
Category:1030s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1030s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13598" title="Category:1080s deaths">
Category:1080s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1080s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13599" title="Category:1090s deaths">
Category:1090s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1090s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13600" title="Category:1093">
Category:1093


</doc>
<doc id="13601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13601" title="Category:1087">
Category:1087


</doc>
<doc id="13602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13602" title="Category:1031">
Category:1031


</doc>
<doc id="13603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13603" title="Category:1090s">
Category:1090s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1090s which begins in the year 1090 and ends in the year 1099.


</doc>
<doc id="13604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13604" title="Category:1080s">
Category:1080s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1080s which begins in the year 1080 and ends in the year 1089.


</doc>
<doc id="13605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13605" title="Category:1030s">
Category:1030s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1030s which begins in the year 1030 and ends in the year 1039.


</doc>
<doc id="13606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13606" title="Category:1020s births">
Category:1020s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1020s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13607" title="Category:1040s births">
Category:1040s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1040s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13608" title="Category:1060s births">
Category:1060s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1060s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13609" title="Category:1070s births">
Category:1070s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1070s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13610" title="Category:1080s births">
Category:1080s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1080s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13611" title="Category:1020s">
Category:1020s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1020s which begins in the year 1020 and ends in the year 1029.


</doc>
<doc id="13612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13612" title="Category:1040s">
Category:1040s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1040s which begins in the year 1040 and ends in the year 1049.


</doc>
<doc id="13613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13613" title="Category:1060s">
Category:1060s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1060s which begins in the year 1060 and ends in the year 1069.


</doc>
<doc id="13614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13614" title="Category:1070s">
Category:1070s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1070s which begins in the year 1070 and ends in the year 1079.


</doc>
<doc id="13615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13615" title="Category:1027">
Category:1027


</doc>
<doc id="13616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13616" title="Category:1045">
Category:1045


</doc>
<doc id="13617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13617" title="Category:1068">
Category:1068


</doc>
<doc id="13618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13618" title="Category:1078">
Category:1078


</doc>
<doc id="13619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13619" title="Category:1084">
Category:1084


</doc>
<doc id="13623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13623" title="Category:1066">
Category:1066


</doc>
<doc id="13624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13624" title="Category:1766">
Category:1766


</doc>
<doc id="13625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13625" title="Category:1585">
Category:1585


</doc>
<doc id="13626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13626" title="Category:1531">
Category:1531


</doc>
<doc id="13627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13627" title="Category:1471">
Category:1471


</doc>
<doc id="13628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13628" title="Category:1031 births">
Category:1031 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1031.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13629" title="Category:1030s births">
Category:1030s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1030s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13630" title="Category:1083 deaths">
Category:1083 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13631" title="Category:1083">
Category:1083


</doc>
<doc id="13632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13632" title="Category:1826 births">
Category:1826 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1826.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13633" title="Category:1887 deaths">
Category:1887 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13634" title="Category:1987 births">
Category:1987 births


</doc>
<doc id="13635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13635" title="Audioslave">
Audioslave

Audioslave is an American rock band. The band is made up of Chris Cornell (vocals), who was with Soundgarden until 1997, and Tom Morello (guitar), Tim Commerford (electric bass) and Brad Wilk (drums), who were with Rage Against The Machine until 2000.

Their first album "Audioslave" was released in 2002 and the next one, named "Out of Exile", followed in 2005. On May 6, 2005 Audioslave became the first American rock group to play in Cuba. Because of American laws against trade with Cuba, this concert had to be allowed by US authorities.


</doc>
<doc id="13637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13637" title="Environment">
Environment

Environment means all of the outside forces, events, and things that act on a thing. A person's environment is made up of everything that surrounds him or her, including houses, buildings, people, animals, land, temperature, water, light, and other living and non-living things. Living things do not simply exist in their environment. They constantly interact with it. Organisms change in response to conditions in their environment. The environment consists of the interactions among plants, animals, soil, water, temperature, light, and other living and non-living things.

The word environment is used to talk about many things. People in different fields of knowledge (like history or Geography or biology) use the word differently.

In psychology and medicine a person's environment is the people, physical things, places, and events that the person lives with. The environment affects the growth and development of the person. It affects the person's behavior. It affects the person's body and mind.

In biology and ecology the environment is all of the natural materials and living things, including sunlight. This is also called the "natural environment". Some people call themselves "environmentalists". These people think that harmony with the environment is important. They think we must protect the environment (to keep it safe.) They think people should not put so much pollution (waste) into the environment. The important things in the environment that we value are called natural resources. For example fish, sunlight, and forests. These are "renewable" natural resources because more grow naturally when we use them. "Non-renewable" natural resources are important things in the environment that do not come back naturally, for example coal and natural gas.

In literature and history, environment is the events and culture that a person lived in. A person's beliefs and actions are dependent on his environment. For example, Thomas Jefferson owned slaves. Today we know this is "very" wrong. But in Thomas Jefferson's "environment" slavery was normal. So his actions did not look as wrong in his society.


</doc>
<doc id="13638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13638" title="Tooth">
Tooth

A tooth is one of the hard, white things in your mouth. Teeth (plural) are used to chew food. "Chew" means to break up and crush food so it can be swallowed (pushed down into your stomach). Some animals also use teeth as a weapon. 

Children have 20 teeth. The first teeth (called "primary teeth") start to "erupt" (come through the skin of the jaw) when a baby is 5-10 months old. When these teeth erupt it can hurt. Babies chew on things to make the pain better. This is called "teething" (verb infinitive: "to teethe"). Most children have all 20 teeth by 2 or 3 years of age. At age 6-7 the "permanent" teeth start to erupt. By the age of 11-12 most children have 28 adult teeth. The last 4 teeth, called "wisdom teeth" or "third molars" come in by age 17-21 in most people. Some people never grow wisdom teeth. Or they may have only 2 instead of 4.

The outside white part of teeth is called the "enamel". The enamel is made of calcium and phosphate. Under the enamel is the "dentin". The dentin is softer than the hard enamel. So it is hurt more by dental decay (cavities.) Under the dentin is the "pulp" which has the nerves and blood vessels that go to the tooth. This is the part that causes the pain of a toothache. "Cementum" is outside the dentin where there is no enamel. Cementum holds the tooth to the bone of the jaw.


If they are protected and kept clean, teeth should stay for a person's whole life. Many people lose their teeth early because they do not do the right things to keep teeth healthy. 

Some things people can do to keep teeth healthy:

Plaque is the soft white substance that forms on teeth when they are not cleaned. It has bacteria in it that hurt enamel. If plaque is not cleaned off, after 2 days it can become tartar. Tartar is a hard substance that forms on teeth (mostly near the gums). Tartar makes gums unhealthy and makes more bacteria grow on the teeth.

Plaque is cleaned off with a toothbrush. If tartar forms on teeth, a dentist must clean it off. 

The bacteria that are on teeth eat into the enamel. Cleaning teeth, flossing teeth, eating good foods, and having a dentist take off plaque make less bacteria on teeth. If there is too much bacteria, they eat enamel faster than teeth make enamel. This makes holes in enamel called cavities. When a person gets cavities, he has the disease dental caries. Making cavities in enamel happens slowly. But once cavities go through enamel, the soft dentin is hurt much faster. If the cavity is not fixed by a dentist, it can go into the root. This permanently hurts the tooth. Once this happens the tooth must be taken out or the dentist must do a root canal (a surgery to replace the root with a chemical substance to keep the tooth in place, at times dangerous.) If the tooth is not fixed with a root canal or is not taken out, a tooth infection can happen. This infection can spread onto the face. It can even kill the person if not helped by a dentist or doctor. 




</doc>
<doc id="13640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13640" title="Category:1872 deaths">
Category:1872 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13641" title="Category:1798 births">
Category:1798 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1798.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13643" title="Category:1942 deaths">
Category:1942 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13644" title="Category:1922 deaths">
Category:1922 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13646" title="Petula Clark">
Petula Clark

Petula Clark (born November 15, 1932, in Surrey, England) is a British singer, actress, and composer. She began her career as a child and was popular in Britain during World War II. In the 1950s, she became a successful pop singer, first in the UK, then in continental Europe, and finally in the United States in the mid-1960s. Her most famous song is "Downtown," which was recorded in four languages and sold nearly five million copies worldwide. Her films include "The Card" (1952), "The Runaway Bus" (1956), "Finian's Rainbow" (1968), and "Goodbye, Mr. Chips". She continues to record and perform in concert.


</doc>
<doc id="13647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13647" title="Tom Jones (singer)">
Tom Jones (singer)

Sir Tom Jones (Thomas John Woodward KBE, born 7 June 1940) is a Welsh singer. He was born at 57, Kingsland Terrace, Treforest, Pontypridd, South Wales. He has won Grammy Awards and is particularly noted for his powerful voice.


</doc>
<doc id="13648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13648" title="Slade">
Slade

Slade is a English Hard Rock /Glam rock band. The band started in 1966 and were popular in the 1970s.


</doc>
<doc id="13649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13649" title="1776">
1776





</doc>
<doc id="13650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13650" title="Deep Purple">
Deep Purple

Deep Purple is a hard rock band started in Hertford, England, in 1968. Their best known song is ""Smoke on the Water"". Their album ""Deep Purple in Rock"" was a great hit and was rated #1 in Germany.





</doc>
<doc id="13651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13651" title="Category:1796">
Category:1796


</doc>
<doc id="13652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13652" title="Category:2002 deaths">
Category:2002 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13653" title="Category:1542 births">
Category:1542 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1542.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13654" title="Category:1605 deaths">
Category:1605 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13658" title="Category:1970 deaths">
Category:1970 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13660" title="Category:1740 births">
Category:1740 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1740.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13661" title="Category:1814 deaths">
Category:1814 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13662" title="Category:1814">
Category:1814


</doc>
<doc id="13663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13663" title="Category:1798">
Category:1798


</doc>
<doc id="13665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13665" title="Category:1716 births">
Category:1716 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1716.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13666" title="Category:1784 deaths">
Category:1784 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13667" title="Category:1716">
Category:1716


</doc>
<doc id="13669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13669" title="Category:Buddhism">
Category:Buddhism


</doc>
<doc id="13670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13670" title="Yoghurt">
Yoghurt

Yoghurt, or yogurt, is a dairy product made by bacterial fermentation of milk. The lactose in the milk becomes lactic acid when it is fermented. Lactic acid acts on the protein in the milk to make yoghurt thick and sour. Yoghurt made from cow's milk is called dairy yoghurt. It is produced using a culture of "Lactobacillus delbrueckii" subsp. "bulgaricus" and "Streptococcus salivarius" subsp. "thermophilus" bacteria. The milk is heated to about 80°C to kill any bad bacteria and to change the milk proteins so that they set together instead of becoming curds. After it is cooled to about 45°C, the bacteria culture is added, and the milk is kept at that temperature for 4 to 7 hours to ferment. Soy yoghurt is made from soy milk.

People have been making and eating yoghurt for at least 5,400 years. Today, it is eaten all over the world. A nutritious food which is especially good for your health, it is rich in protein, calcium, riboflavin, vitamin B and vitamin B.

The word "yoghurt" comes from , and is related to the words "yoğurmak" 'to knead' and "yoğun" "dense" or "thick". The letter ğ was used to be written as "gh" when people translated the Turkish language. This is because it used to be written a variant of the Arabic alphabet until Latin alphabet started being used in 1928, so it was harder to translate at that time.

In Bulgaria, yogurt is called "кисело мляко" (kiselo mlyako), which means "sour milk"; in Serbia, yogurt is also called "кисело млеко" (kiselo mleko), but Serbian yogurt is a thick, milky liquid.

In English, there are many ways to spell the word. In Australia and New Zealand "yoghurt" is the main spelling. In the United Kingdom "yoghurt" and "yogurt" are both used, but "yoghurt" is more common, and "yoghourt" is also sometimes used. In the United States, "yogurt'" is the usual spelling. In Canada, "yogurt" is most common among English speakers, but many brands use "yogourt," because it is correct in both French and English.

The word is usually said with a short "o" () in the UK, with a long "o" () in North America, Australia and South Africa, and with either a long or short "o" in New Zealand and Ireland.

The earliest yoghurts were probably made by wild bacteria and happened by chance.

The oldest writings mentioning yogurt were by Pliny the Elder, who said that some people knew how to thicken the milk into something which was sour but tasty. The use of yoghurt by medieval Turks is recorded in the books "Diwan Lughat al-Turk" by Mahmud Kashgari and "Kutadgu Bilig" by Yusuf Has Hajib written in the 11th century. Both texts mention the word "yoghurt" in different sections and describe how it was used. Francis I suffered from a serious diarrhoea which no French doctor could cure. His ally Suleiman the Magnificent sent a doctor, who cured the patient with yoghurt. The grateful French king spread around the information about the food which had cured him.
Until the 1900s, yoghurt was eaten all the time by people in the Russian Empire (and especially Central Asia and the Caucasus), Western Asia, South Eastern Europe/Balkans, Central Europe, and India. Stamen Grigorov (1878–1945), a Bulgarian student of medicine in Geneva, first examined the bacteria in Bulgarian yoghurt. In 1905 he said that it contained a round and a rod-like lactic acid bacteria. In 1907 the rod-like bacteria was called "Lactobacillus bulgaricus" (now "Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus"). The Russian Nobel laureate biologist Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov, from the Institut Pasteur in Paris, was influenced by Grigorov's work and made a hypothesis that eating yoghurt regularly was the reason why Bulgarian peasants lived for so long. Mechnikov believed that "Lactobacillus" was needed for good health, and worked to make yoghurt popular through Europe.

In 1919, a Sephardic Jewish entrepreneur named Isaac Carasso started a small yoghurt business in Barcelona and named the business Danone ("little Daniel") after his son. The business later expanded to the United States, where it was called Dannon.

Yoghurt with fruit jam added to it was patented in 1933 by the Radlická Mlékárna dairy in Prague. It was introduced to the United States in 1947, by Dannon.

Yoghurt was first brought to the United States by Armenian immigrants Sarkis and Rose Colombosian, who started "Colombo and Sons Creamery" in Andover, Massachusetts in 1929. Colombo Yogurt was first sent around New England in a horse-drawn wagon with the Armenian word "madzoon" written on it. This was later changed to "yogurt", the Turkish name of the product. In the 1950s and 60s yoghurt became very popular in the United States because it was sold as a health food. By the late 20th century yoghurt had become a common food in America and Colombo Yogurt was sold in 1993 to General Mills, who stopped using the brand name in 2010.

Yoghurt has a lot of protein, calcium, riboflavin, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 in it. It is better for you than milk is. Many people who are lactose-intolerant can enjoy yoghurt, because much of the lactose in the milk has become lactic acid.

Yoghurt also has medical uses. and in preventing antibiotic-associated diarrhea. 

Yoghurt is believed to promote good gum health, possibly because the lactic acids in yoghurt encourage good bacteria.

A study in the "International Journal of Obesity" (11 January 2005) found that eating low-fat yoghurt can help weight loss. In the study, obese people who ate 3 servings of low-fat yoghurt a day lost 22% more weight than the control group who only cut back on calories and did not have extra calcium. They also lost 81% more abdominal fat.


</doc>
<doc id="13672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13672" title="Category:1965 births">
Category:1965 births


</doc>
<doc id="13673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13673" title="Category:1914 births">
Category:1914 births


</doc>
<doc id="13674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13674" title="Category:1876 births">
Category:1876 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1876.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13678" title="Marlon Brando">
Marlon Brando

Marlon Brando (April 3, 1924 – July 1, 2004) was an American actor and film director. He is best known for his roles in the movies "A Streetcar Named Desire" (1951), "The Wild One" (1953), "On the Waterfront" (1954), "The Godfather" (1972), "Superman" (1978), "Apocalypse Now" (1979), and "The Island of Dr. Moreau" (1996).


</doc>
<doc id="13683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13683" title="Category:1056 births">
Category:1056 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1056.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13684" title="Category:1056">
Category:1056


</doc>
<doc id="13685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13685" title="Category:1050s births">
Category:1050s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1050s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13686" title="Category:1050s">
Category:1050s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1050s which begins in the year 1050 and ends in the year 1059.


</doc>
<doc id="13687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13687" title="Category:1100 deaths">
Category:1100 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13688" title="Category:1100s deaths">
Category:1100s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1100s, starting from the year 1100 to the year 1109.

Note that the year 1100 is actually the last year in the 11th century; 1101 is the first year in the 12th century.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13689" title="Category:1100s">
Category:1100s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1100s which begins in the year 1100 and ends in the year 1109.

Note that 1100 is actually the last year of the 11th century; 1101 is the actual first year of the 12th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13690" title="Category:1100">
Category:1100


</doc>
<doc id="13691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13691" title="Category:1512 births">
Category:1512 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1512.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13692" title="Category:1512">
Category:1512


</doc>
<doc id="13693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13693" title="Category:1548 deaths">
Category:1548 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13695" title="Category:1507">
Category:1507


</doc>
<doc id="13696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13696" title="Category:1500s births">
Category:1500s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1500s, starting from the year 1500 to the year 1509.

Note that the year 1500 is actually the last year in the 15th century; 1501 is the first year in the 16th century.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13697" title="Category:1542 deaths">
Category:1542 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13700" title="Galician language">
Galician language

Galician (Galician: "Galego" or "Galego-Português") is a language that is spoken in Galicia, just north of Portugal. It is very similar to Portuguese. Some even say it is the same language but with a different accent. Galician is very close to Leonese language.

Galician is a Romance language that started on the west part of the Roman Empire called Gallaecia. Today, this same place is the north of Portugal and Galicia itself.

Galician took words from many languages, like Latin, Germanic, Spanish, and Celtic.

The Galician of today comes from the Galician-Portuguese language spoken during the Middle Ages.

Today, Galician is spoken only in Galicia and by some people in South America and Western Europe.

Some people say Galician and Portuguese are the same language, because there are not a lot differences between them, but they are officially two separate languages.

People that speak Portuguese and people who speak Galician can understand each other very well.


</doc>
<doc id="13702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13702" title="Ibn Khaldun">
Ibn Khaldun

Abdul Rahman Ibn Khaldun was an influential North African Muslim thinker of the 14th century. Born in Tunis in 1332, Khaldun served the government of the day in many ways. He lived in Marrakesh in Morocco for a time. Then he moved to Cairo and died there as a judge in 1406.

Two of the books Khaldun wrote are Muqaddimah (Proglemena) and Autobiography.

Khaldun is the founder of sociology. Ibn Khaldun was one of the greatest writers of Islam in the Middle Ages.

Ibn Khaldun is the most important figure in the field of History and Sociology in Muslim History. He is one of those shining stars that contributed so richly to the understanding of Civilization. In order for one to understand and appreciate his work, one must understand his life. He lived a life in search of stability and influence. He came from a family of scholars and politicians and he intended to live up to both expectations. He would succeed in the field of Scholarship much more so than in any other field.


</doc>
<doc id="13703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13703" title="Swabian Alb">
Swabian Alb

The Swabian Alb (German: "Schwäbische Alb") is a plateau in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. The Swabian Alb is situated between the Black Forest (West), Stuttgart (North), Bavaria (East) and the Lake Constance (South). A lot of fossils are found here. The highest mountain is the Lemberg (1015 m).



</doc>
<doc id="13704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13704" title="Nerve">
Nerve

A nerve is a group of special nerve cells grouped together in parallel. Another word for nerve cell is neuron. The special neurons grouped together in nerves take information (messages) to and from the body to the central nervous system. The central nervous system (acronym) CNS is the brain and spinal cord. The spinal cord is the big cord that goes from the brain into the back. It carries all the information that goes from the brain to the nerves in the body.

All the nerves in the body make the peripheral nervous system (acronym PNS). The brain and spinal cord are the CNS. All the nerves that come from the spinal cord are the PNS. Together the CNS and PNS are the nervous system.

Nervand cells called glia. Glia are not neurons, but they are very important. They keep the neurons safe and healthy.neurons take messages to and from the CNS to the rest. The dendrite and axon are fibers that go out from the cell body. Axons take information "away from" the cell body. Dendrites take information to the cell body.

"Afferent" nerves take messages to the CNS (brain) from the body. They take messages about sensation from the skin. They take messages about the position of the body from the muscles. They take messages about the function of organs like the heart and stomach.

"Efferent" nerves take messages from the CNS to the body. They take messages that tell muscles to move. They take messages to glands. They tell glands like "sweat glands" to make sweat (the water that comes out of your skin when you are hot.)

There are many diseases of nerves. A disease of nerves is also called a "neuropathy".


</doc>
<doc id="13707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13707" title="Vaccine">
Vaccine

A vaccine is a medication, usually of biological origin, which improves immunity to a particular disease. 
The term derives from the Latin "vaccīn-us" (from "vacca" cow); in 1796 Edward Jenner used cows infected with cowpox ("variolae vaccinae") to protect people against smallpox.

In the 19th century Louis Pasteur developed a rabies vaccine. In the 20th century vaccines were introduced against diphtheria, measles, mumps, and rubella. In 1950s the polio vaccine was developed. However, vaccines still do not exist for many important diseases, including malaria and HIV.Compulsory vaccination laws were passed. 

A vaccine often contains something like a germ that has been weakened or killed or the germ's toxins. Some vaccines are synthetic vaccines that are made in a laboratory.

There are many types of vaccines currently in use. 

Vaccines can be prophylactic (e.g. to prevent or ameliorate the effects of a future infection by any natural pathogen), or therapeutic (e.g. vaccines against cancer).
The agent in the vaccine stimulates the body's immune system to recognize the agent as foreign, destroy it, and "remember" it. Then the immune system can more easily recognize and destroy any of the microorganisms that it later encounters. When the virulent version of an agent comes along the body recognizes the protein coat on the virus, and thus is prepared to respond, by (1) neutralizing the target agent before it can enter cells, and (2) by recognizing and destroying infected cells before that agent can multiply to vast numbers.

Vaccines do not guarantee complete protection from a disease. Sometimes, this is because the host's immune system simply does not respond adequately or at all. This may be due to a lowered immunity in general (diabetes, steroid use, HIV infection, age) or because the host's immune system does not have a B cell capable of generating antibodies to that antigen. Even if the host develops antibodies, the immune system might still not be able to defeat the infection.

The efficacy is dependent on a number of factors:
Adjuvants usually boost immune response. They include aluminium adjuvants, squalene, squalene and phosphate adjuvants.

Opposition to using vaccines has existed since the earliest time. Although the benefits of using vaccines in preventing suffering and death from infectious diseases greatly outweigh the risks of rare adverse effects following administration of vaccines, disputes have arisen over the morality, ethics, effectiveness, safety of using vaccines or that vaccine safety studies are inadequate. Some religious groups do not allow uses of vaccines, and some political groups oppose mandatory vaccination on the grounds of individual liberty. In response a study says- "Vaccine refusal not only increases the individual risk of disease but also increases the risk for the whole community. 

Principle 18 of the Yogyakarta Principles also affirm the protection from unethical or involuntary treatments including vaccines

One challenge in vaccine development is economic. The diseases most demanding a vaccine, HIV, malaria and tuberculosis, exist principally in poor countries. Pharmaceutical firms and biotechnology companies have little incentive to develop vaccines for these diseases, because there is little revenue potential, the financial and other risks are great.

Most vaccine development to date has relied on governments, universities and non-profit organizations. Many vaccines have been highly cost effective and beneficial for public health. The number of vaccines actually administered has risen dramatically in recent decades. This increase, particularly in the number of different vaccines administered to children before entry into schools may be due to government mandates and support, rather than economic incentive.

The filing of patents on vaccine development processes can be viewed as an obstacle to the development of new vaccines. Because of the weak protection offered through a patent on the final product, the protection of the innovation regarding vaccines is often made through the patent of processes used on the development of new vaccines as well as the protection of secrecy.


Vaccine production techniques are evolving. Cultured mammalian cells are expected to become increasingly important, compared to conventional options such as chicken eggs, due to greater productivitity and few problems with contamination. Recombination technology that produces genetically detoxified vaccine is expected to grow in popularity for the production of bacterial vaccines that use toxoids. Combination vaccines are expected to reduce the quantities of antigens they contain, and thereby decrease undesirable interactions, by using pathogen-associated molecular patterns.

In vaccine preparations beside the active vaccine itself, the following components are commonly present :

Preservatives in vaccines, such as thiomersal, phenoxyethanol, and formaldehyde, prevent serious adverse effects. Thiomersal is more effective against bacteria, has better shelf life, and improves vaccine stability, potency, and safety, but in the U.S., the European Union, and a few other rich countries, it is no longer used as a preservative in childhood vaccines, as a precautionary measure due to its mercury content. Although controversial claims have been made that thiomersal contributes to autism, no convincing scientific evidence supports these claims.
Absence of any preservative in vaccine may result in adverse effects, such as "Staphylococcus" infection that, in one 1928 incident, killed 12 of 21 children inoculated with a diphtheria vaccine that lacked a preservative.

There are several new delivery systems in development, which will hopefully make vaccines more efficient to deliver. Possible methods include liposomes and "ISCOM" (immune stimulating complex).
New delivery technologies have resulted in oral vaccines, as a polio vaccine. With an oral vaccine, there is no risk of blood contamination. Solid oral vaccines have proven to be more stable and less likely to freeze; this stability reduces the need for a "cold chain": the resources required to keep vaccines within a restricted temperature range from the manufacturing stage to the point of administration, which, in turn, will decrease costs of vaccines. Finally, a micro needle approach seems to be the vaccine of the future. The microneedle, which is "pointed projections fabricated into arrays that can create vaccine delivery pathways through the skin".

Vaccinations of animals are used both to prevent their contracting diseases and to prevent transmission of disease to humans. Both animals kept as pets and animals raised as livestock are routinely vaccinated. In some instances, wild populations may be vaccinated. This is sometimes accomplished with vaccine-laced food spread in a disease-prone area and has been used to attempt to control rabies in raccoons. Where rabies occurs, rabies vaccination of dogs may be required by law. Other canine vaccines include canine distemper, canine parvovirus, infectious canine hepatitis, adenovirus-2, leptospirosis, bordatella, canine parainfluenza virus, and Lyme disease among others.

Principles that govern the immune response can now be used in tailor-made vaccines against many noninfectious human diseases, such as cancers and autoimmune disorders. For example, the experimental vaccine CYT006-AngQb has been investigated as a possible treatment for high blood pressure. 


</doc>
<doc id="13712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13712" title="Injury">
Injury

Injury means a "harm" or "hurt".
Usually an injury is when the body or a part of the body damaged by something outside of the body. Another word for injury to a body is "trauma".

Injury can be by:

Injury can be "accidental" or "intentional". Intentional injury is when someone "tries" to hurt another person. (Intentional injury is also called "non-accidental" injury) Accidental injury is when no one means to hurt someone else. An example of accidental injury is a car wreck.


</doc>
<doc id="13715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13715" title="Category:1553 deaths">
Category:1553 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13716" title="Category:1882 deaths">
Category:1882 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13718" title="Category:1175">
Category:1175


</doc>
<doc id="13719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13719" title="Category:1250 deaths">
Category:1250 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13720" title="Category:1250">
Category:1250


</doc>
<doc id="13721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13721" title="Category:1250s deaths">
Category:1250s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1250s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13722" title="Mercedes-Benz">
Mercedes-Benz

Mercedes-Benz is a brand of cars and trucks from the Daimler AG company of Germany. The company was once known as Daimler-Benz and is still sometimes called just "Mercedes." Mercedes-Benz is the world's oldest car maker and the cars they make cost a lot of money. The symbol of Mercedes-Benz is very famous. It is a three-pointed star inside of a circle and was designed by one of the men who started the company, Gottlieb Daimler. The three points of the star stand for land, air and sea because Daimler's engines were used not only in cars and trucks but in airplanes and boats. The symbol was first used in 1909. 

Mercedes-Benz cars are an important part of the history of the car with many "firsts." They were the first to build a diesel-powered car in the 1930s, the first to build a car with fuel injection in the 1950s and the first to offer antilock brakes in the 1970s. Mercedes-Benz cars have also been important in auto racing history. 



</doc>
<doc id="13728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13728" title="Category:1866 births">
Category:1866 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1866.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13729" title="Category:1866">
Category:1866


</doc>
<doc id="13733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13733" title="Record label">
Record label

A record label or record company makes and sells audio and video recordings, on various formats including compact discs, LPs, DVD-Audio, SACDs, and cassettes. The name "record label" is from the paper label at the center of a gramophone record (what is also known as a "phonograph record" in American English). 

Most major record labels are owned by a few large multinational companies (Big Four record labels) that make up the almost all of the global recording industry, although there is a recent resurgence in independent record labels.
Recording companies often spend a lot of time and money in discovering new musicians or developing the talent of artists they already have signed up with a contract. The association of the brand with the artists helps define the image of both the brand and the artist.

In spite of the fact that both parties need each other to survive, the relationship between record labels and artists can, at times, be a difficult one. Many artists have had albums changed or censored in some way by the labels before they are released -- songs being edited, artwork or titles being changed, etc. Record labels generally do this because they believe that the album will sell better if the changes are made. Often the record label's decisions are correct ones from a commercial perspective, but this typically frustrates the artist who feels that their artwork is being destroyed. 

In the early days of the recording industry, record labels were absolutely necessary for the success of any artist. The first goal of any new artist or band was to get signed to a contract as soon as possible. In the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, many artists were so desperate to sign a contract with a record company that they usually ended up signing a bad contract, sometimes giving away the rights to their music in the process. Entertainment lawyers are used by some to look over any contract before it is signed.

In the 1970s and 1980s, there was a phase of consolidation in the record industry that led to almost all major labels being owned by a very few multinational companies, who in turn were members of the RIAA.

See also: List of record labels

In the 1990s, due to the widespread use of home studios, consumer CD recorders, and the Internet, independent labels began to become more commonplace. Independent labels are typically artist-owned (although not always), with a focus usually on making good music and not necessarily on the business aspects of the industry or making lots of money. Because of this, independent artists usually receive less radio play and sell fewer CDs than artists signed to major labels. However, they usually have more control over the music and packaging of the released product.

On occasion established artists, once their record contract has finished, move to an independent label. This often gives the combined advantage of name recognition and more control over one's music. Singers Dolly Parton, Aimee Mann and Prince, among others, have achieved this. 

While there are many independent labels, folk singer Ani DiFranco's Righteous Babe Records is often cited as an ideal example. The singer turned down lucrative contracts from several top-name labels in order to establish her own New-York-based company. Constant touring resulted in noteworthy success for an act without significant major funding. Ani and others from the company have spoken on several occasions about their business model in hopes of encouraging others. 

Some independent labels become successful enough that major record companies negotiate contracts to either distribute music for the label or in some cases, purchase the label completely. 

On the punk rock scene, the DIY punk ethic encourages bands to self-publish and self-distribute. This approach has been around since the early 1980s, in an attempt to stay true to the punk ideals of doing it yourself and not selling out to corporate profits and control. Such labels have a reputation for being fiercely uncompromising and especially unwilling to cooperate with the Big Five record labels at all.

See also: List of independent record labels

"Main Article:" net label

With the Internet now being a viable source for obtaining music, we see the emergence of net labels. Depending on the ideals of the net label, music files from the artists may be downloaded free of charge or for a fee that is paid via paypal or an online payment system. Some of these labels also offer hard copy CDs in addition to direct download (for example, Baltimore's Schismatik record label ships CDs for a nominal charge). Most net labels acknowledge the Creative Commons licensing system thus reserving certain rights for the artist.

"Main Article:" Open source record label

The new century brings the phenomenon of "open-source" or "open-content" record label. These are inspired by the free software and open-source movement and the success of GNU/Linux. 

Examples are



</doc>
<doc id="13735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13735" title="Pipette">
Pipette

A pipette is a glass tube used for delivery of a specific volume of a solution. 

A smaller, less accurate version, known as a teat pipette is made of plastic and is filled by squeezing a plastic bubble at the top.

A pipette used for the delivery of small fractions of a milliliter of a liquid is called a micropipette. 

Rainin (a division of Mettler Toledo) is the world's largest developer and supplier of pipettes.


</doc>
<doc id="13744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13744" title="Muscle">
Muscle

Muscle is a tissue in animal bodies. Muscles are "contractile" tissue. This means they get shorter. When they get shorter, this is called "contraction". See for more muscle details.

We use muscles to move our bodies. Many muscles pull on bones to make our arms and legs move. If we hurt ourselves then the nerves tell the brain to register the feeling as pain.

There are three kinds of muscles:

The Skeletal muscles move the limbs (arms and legs). They move the jaw up and down so that food can be chewed. Skeletal muscles are the only "voluntary" muscles. This means they are the only muscle that you can choose to move.

The Cardiac muscle is the muscle in the heart. When this muscle contracts (makes itself smaller) it pushes blood through the circulatory system. The Cardiac muscle is "not" voluntary. Animals do not choose for their heart to contract.

The Smooth muscles are the other muscles in the body that are involuntary. Smooth muscles are in many places. They are in:

Muscles are made of many muscle cells. The cells contract together to make the muscle get shorter. The muscle cells know to do this together because many of them get information sent to them by nerves. Then cells that get the message from nerves tell other cells that are near them. They tell the other cells by sending an electrical current.

Muscle cells are filled with proteins called "actin" and "myosin". These are the proteins that make the muscle contract (get shorter.)

When a nerve tells a muscle to contract, the muscle opens holes in its cell membrane. These holes are proteins that are called "calcium channels". Then calcium rushes into the cell. Calcium also comes out of a special place in the cell called the "sarcoplasmic reticulum". This calcium sticks to the "actin" and "myosin". This makes these proteins contract.

Contraction also needs ATP. This is the energy that your cells use. It is made from using glucose in the cell. It takes a lot of energy to release contracted muscles. They use most of the energy your body uses.

Muscles work in pairs called "antagonistic pairs".

Exercise makes muscles get bigger (see hypertrophy). Exercise also makes muscles stronger. If a person does not exercise, their muscles "atrophy". This means their muscles get smaller and weaker.

There are many different kinds of muscle diseases. There are three big groups of diseases:



</doc>
<doc id="13745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13745" title="Game Boy">
Game Boy

The Game Boy is a handheld console. It was Nintendo's first game console in the Game Boy range. It was their first portable console to use game cartridges, so it could play more than one game, and you could take it anywhere. Since 1989 the range has grown to include not only the original, but also many other consoles such as Game Boy Color, Game Boy Advance, Game Boy Advance SP and Game Boy Micro. All of these (except the Game Boy Micro) can play Game Boy games as well.

The Game Boy has a green screen that can show four shades of grey or dark green. Like the NES, it has four buttons and a cross-shaped direction all control. The console has a single speaker, but can be used with stereo headphones. As many as four Game Boys can be connected together with special wires for games with more than one player.

The idea for the Game Boy came from Gumpei Yokoi, who also made many other Nintendo video game consoles.

Nintendo made Game & Watch games before the Game Boy and later the Nintendo DS after the Game Boy.


</doc>
<doc id="13746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13746" title="Stomach">
Stomach

The stomach is part of the digestive system. It is a big sack between the esophagus and the small intestines. The stomach is the second stage in the digestive process. It holds food after ingestion. Food in the stomach then passes through to the small intestine where most of the food's nutrition is absorbed.

The stomach contains acid made by stomach cells. This acid kills bacteria in the food. Acid in the stomach may cause problems. It can worsen peptic ulcer disease. It can also cause gastroesophageal reflux (or heartburn) — pain in the chest when acid from the stomach "refluxes" (backs up into) the esophagus.

Vomiting occurs when food goes back up the esophagus and out the mouth. Vomiting can be a symptom of disease.

Stomachs of other animals work differently than human stomachs. Cows, for example, have a stomach with multiple compartments.

Other words for "stomach" include "belly" and "tummy".


</doc>
<doc id="13750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13750" title="Pain">
Pain

Pain is a symptom of being hurt or sick. It is a bad sensation that is physical "and" emotional.

Most pain starts when part of the body is hurt. Nerves in that part send messages to the brain. Those messages tell the brain that the body is being damaged. Pain is not just the message the nerve sends to the brain. It is the bad emotion felt because of that damage.

The message that the nerve sends to the brain is called "nociception". What is experienced "because of" the nociception is pain.

Pain can be "acute" or "chronic". Acute means it only happens a short time. Chronic means the pain lasts a long time.

Pain can be from different types of injury:

Pain can also happen when there is no underlying injury or cause. Pain can happen just because the nerves do not work right. This is called "neuropathic" pain.

For most pain, the best treatment is to stop the damage that makes the pain. If the ankle is sprained, doctors tells the person not to walk on it. They tell them to put ice on it. This helps the injury stop. For an ulcer in the stomach, doctors stop the acid made in the stomach. This helps the ulcer to heal.

But many kinds of pain also need medicines to feel better. There are many different kinds of medicines for pain:

There are doctors who specialize in pain management. These are usually anesthesiologists but may also have any one of a number of underlying areas of specialization, such as neurology, physiatry, or internal medicine.

A new genetic method of treating chronic pain is in the research stage. The idea is to inactivate (turn off) gene HCN2, which plays a key role in chronic pain. Experiments on mice suggest this will work. 




</doc>
<doc id="13751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13751" title="Category:Game Boy">
Category:Game Boy

This category is for things related to the Game Boy handheld video games console.


</doc>
<doc id="13755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13755" title="Drain">
Drain

A drain is found in the ground and lets water go through (usually rainwater) to avoid the street or farmland getting flooded.


</doc>
<doc id="13756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13756" title="Super Mario 64">
Super Mario 64

Super Mario 64 is a video game created by Nintendo for the Nintendo 64. It's the first Mario game that uses 3D graphics. In 2004, the game was re-released for the Nintendo DS as "Super Mario 64 DS". It has new characters you can play as and minigames. Many fans and critics think that "Super Mario" 64 is one of the best video games ever made. 

Mario, an Italian plumber, has to save Princess Peach from the reptile monster Bowser. To do so, he has to win stars by completing courses inside different paintings of the Mushroom Kingdom.

The story begins when Peach invites Mario to her castle to give him a special cake that she has made for him. By the time Mario arrives, however, Bowser has taken control of the castle and has kidnapped Peach and stolen the power of the castle. Mario must save the princess and the kingdom before it's too late.

The main hub of the game is Princess Peach's castle. There are many locked doors inside that the player must open with the stars that they have collected. There are six stars within each level, and a 100 coin star. To unlock another world, players must have the stars required. One world requires two stars, for instance. Each locked door leads to more levels, and to more difficult challenges. Mario can also leave the castle and explore the small courtyard.

In the original Super Smash Bros. for the Nintendo 64 console, Princess Toadstool's castle is a playable stage in which the fighters fight on top of the roof, Mario can be the owner of the area.

In Mario Party, Peach's stage is a large birthday cake which the player can travel through.

Super Mario 64 DS is a remake made for the Nintendo DS console. In this game Mario, Luigi, and Wario all get a letter saying Peach baked a cake for them. Bowser has kidnapped Princess Peach, Mario , Luigi and Wario and has jailed them in Princess Peach's castle. Yoshi is told that he must save them. When the player finds keys, they save a character, and can play as them. "Super Mario 64 DS" also has multiplayer minigames which are unlocked by getting keys.


</doc>
<doc id="13757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13757" title="MP3">
MP3

MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3 (MP3) is a lossy data compression format for audio. Using it makes smaller computer files containing digitized music and other sounds.

The format is a lossy compression format. This means that each time something is compressed with it, some information is lost. This information can not be recovered. When encoding to MP3 (converting some audio data to it), the encoder is smart. The human ear can not hear certain sounds if they are masked by other sounds. This means that when encoding certain sound samples, some sounds can be left out (as they will not be heard). This makes it possible to compress audio by a factor of about 5, without noticeable change to the sound of the music.

Many people like to use MP3 files to copy music so they can listen to it on their computer. Record companies do not like it when people use the Internet to share these MP3 files with each other. They think it is a violation of their copyright. The record industries have a trade group called the RIAA that has taken people to court for sharing music. An Internet website called Napster was shut down because of this. Napster has since re-opened, but does not let people share MP3 files anymore.

Other formats for audio compression are Ogg Vorbis, and FLAC. Ogg Vorbis is very similar to MP3. FLAC is a lossless compression (meaning no information is lost), and gets compression rates of 2-3.

In 1980's, Dieter Seitzer started the development of a code for audio format of high-quality. Together with his team at the "German Fraunhofer Institut" situated in Erlangen, the professor had the idea to create code with a low bit-rate. The German institute received the patent for MP3 in 1989. MP3 was then passed to the International Organisation for Standardisation. In the same year the MP3 was included into MPEG-1 specification. (MPEG means "Moving Picture Experts Group").

The first player to be able to read the MP3 format was designed by the same Fraunhofer Institute in 1990's. A student named "Tomislav Uzelac" developed "AMP MP3 Playback Engine" in 1997. It represented the first device that could be called MP3 player. After the player appeared on the Internet, two students named "Justin Frankel" and "Dmitry Boldyrev" transformed it into Winamp. They took the engine of the original player and added the interface of the famous Windows. 

When Winamp was launched into the net for free use it became successful at once. This way began the era of free music download. Soon various programmers started creating additional features for the MP3 player. Very often they created new encoders, rippers (software for transforming audio tracks into MP3 files) and players.

Because there is no need to pay licensing fees in order to build the player, today many MP3 players are for free. The most famous MP3 players are "Winamp", "Sonique", "iTunes" and "MusicMatch". The main feature of an MP3 player is to turn the MP3 files into standard audio form and then send them to the soundcard of the computer. The soundcard then outputs the files into speaker so the user can hear them. Every MP3 player interprets music differently, though each one of them uses the same code for playing the MP3 files.





</doc>
<doc id="13759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13759" title="King Crimson">
King Crimson

King Crimson is a progressive rock band. They formed in England in 1969. Their music is usually called progressive rock, but they also have jazz, Gamelan Music, Classical music, heavy metal and experimental music in their sound. They are not very popular, but they have a loyal group of fans. Their music has influenced a lot of bands and styles of music. King Crimson is most well known for their first album, In the Court of the Crimson King, which helped create Progressive Rock. Only one person has been in the band since they started, guitarist Robert Fripp. Right now, the people in the band are Robert Fripp on guitar, Adrian Belew on guitar, Tony Levin on Bass, and Pat Mastelotto on drums.

In 1967, drummer Michael Giles and his brother, Peter, a bass guitar player, started a band with Robert Fripp. They recorded one album called The Cheerful Insanity of Giles, Giles and Fripp. This album did not do very well, and a lot of critics wrote bad reviews of it. After this, Ian Mcdonald joined playing keyboards, reeds, and woodwind instruments. Ian McDonald's friend, Peter Sinfield, joined to write lyrics, and Greg Lake replaced Peter Giles on bass guitar. Then they bought a mellotron, which helped them sound more like classical music. They changed their name to King Crimson, and did their first show in Hyde Park, London in 1969. Their first CD, In the Court of the Crimson King, was a huge success. Their original style impressed fans and critics.

Micheal Giles and Ian Mcdonald left the band to do solo work. The three of them still in the band, Robert fripp, Peter sinfield, and Greg Lake, released the single "Catfood/Groon". On the next album, woodwind player Mel Collins, singer Gordon Haskell, and Peter Giles all helped record a few songs with the band. King Crimson released their second album, In the Wake of Poseidon, in 1970. It was not very popular because it sounded too much like the first album.



</doc>
<doc id="13761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13761" title="Fleetwood Mac">
Fleetwood Mac

Fleetwood Mac is a rock band that formed in London, England in 1967. It was formed by Mick Fleetwood and John McVie. After the other original members Peter Green and Jeremy Spencer left, they added to the group Christine McVie, Lindsay Buckingham, and Stevie Nicks, who helped to make the group very famous. Their most famous album was called "Rumours."


</doc>
<doc id="13762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13762" title="The Yardbirds">
The Yardbirds

The Yardbirds are a English blues band. They formed in the 1960s. They are famous for having the guitarists, Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck, and Jimmy Page. Eric Clapton left the band after they turned from a blues band to a pop band, in keeping with the moving trend of music in the 1960s. He suggested Jimmy Page, who had been a studio musician at the time (performing on records for many stars but not being a member of a specific band). Unwilling to give up his career as a studio musician, Page suggested Jeff Beck. Shortly thereafter, Page joined the band, playing bass and lead guitar. 

Towards the end of the '60s, the Yardbirds broke up while in the middle of a tour. Page wanted to keep the band going, and eventually put together a band called "The New Yardbirds" consisting of vocalist Robert Plant, bassist John Paul Jones, and drummer John "Bonzo" Bonham. This group would soon gain a new name, allegedly taken from a quote by Who drummer Keith Moon. Moon had said previously said that their band would go over "like a lead zeppelin," and the name "Led Zeppelin" stuck.


</doc>
<doc id="13763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13763" title="Grateful Dead">
Grateful Dead

The Grateful Dead is a "jam band" who formed in San Francisco, California United States in the 1960s. They are known for their stage shows, and devoted followers called "Deadheads". Jerry Garcia lead the band until he died in 1995. Then The Grateful Dead disband. But The rest of the band members made a new band called the Dead. The Grateful Dead logo was the dancing bears. Later to the skull and roses in a album called Steal your Face. The Grateful dead were around for 1965 to 1995. The first band name was the warlocks. In the late 60s the band went to Woodstock. The Grateful Dead was an American rock band formed in 1965 in the San Francisco Bay Area.[1] The band was known for its unique and eclectic style, which fused elements of rock, folk, bluegrass, blues, reggae, country, improvisational jazz, psychedelia, and space rock[2][3]—and for live performances of long musical improvisation.[1][4] "Their music," writes Lenny Kaye, "touches on ground that most other groups don't even know exists."[5] These various influences were distilled into a diverse and psychedelic whole that made the Grateful Dead "the pioneering Godfathers of the jam band world."[6] They were ranked 57th in the issue The Greatest Artists of all Time by Rolling Stone magazine.[7]

The fans of the Grateful Dead, some of whom followed the band from concert to concert for years, are known as "Deadheads" and are known for their dedication to the band's music.[1][4] Many referred to the band simply as "the Dead."


</doc>
<doc id="13764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13764" title="Johnny Winter">
Johnny Winter

John Dawson Winter III (February 23, 1944-) is an albino blues musician from Beaumount, Texas, United States. His brother Edgar Winter is also a famous musician. He also works as producer and produced two Grammy winning albums of Muddy Waters (Hard again, I´m ready).






</doc>
<doc id="13765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13765" title="Edgar Winter">
Edgar Winter

Edgar Winter (born December 28, 1946) is an albino musician from Beaumont, Texas. He is the brother of Johnny Winter who is also a famous musician. He mostly plays keyboards and the saxophone.



</doc>
<doc id="13767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13767" title="Albinism">
Albinism

Albinism is a condition some people and animals are born with. This condition is caused by a lack of pigment (colour) in their hair, eyes, and skin. A person or animal with albinism is called an albino, but people may prefer to be called a "person with albinism".

People with albinism usually have white or light blonde hair and very fair skin. Their eyes are blue, or rarely pink-ish. People with albinism do have some problems including bad vision and getting sunburn easily. All of these problems are because people with alibinism have little or no pigments in their eyes, skin and hair.

Vision problems in albinism include nystagmus (irregular fast movements of the eyes), strabismus (where the eyes fail to balance) and refractory errors (like being "near-sighted" or "far-sighted").

Albino animals are more easily seen and so may be attacked by predators. They lack the camouflage that the non-albino members of their species have. Also, where colour is a factor in mate selection, they may be at a disadvantage there, too.

Albinism is a hereditary condition. It is usually inherited in a recessive pattern; it means, both parents should carry the albinism gene to have a child with albinism.




</doc>
<doc id="13768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13768" title="Paco de Lucía">
Paco de Lucía

Paco de Lucia (real name: Francisco Sanchez Gomez, born December 21, 1947) is a famous Flamenco guitar player from Spain.


</doc>
<doc id="13772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13772" title="Hearing">
Hearing

Hearing is one of the five senses. The ears are used for hearing (listening to) sounds. The noun form of hearing may also be used to refer to a meeting, usually one where the public is invited to come and help decide something.

Sometimes the phrase "I hear you." can be used to mean, "I understand." It is harder to hear a sound made farther away. It is also harder to hear a sound when other sounds are louder.

Sounds pass into our ear and make the eardrum vibrate, which makes the tiny bones inside. The bones vibrate a small tube shaped like a snail shell, called the "cochlea". Inside the cochlea is a fluid, which moves tiny hairs that send signals to the brain.

Three canals next to the cochlea, in the inner ear, help us keep our balance. They let the brain know what movements the body is making. Ballet dancers need excellent balance.


</doc>
<doc id="13773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13773" title="Bhutan">
Bhutan

The Kingdom of Bhutan is a small country in the Himalaya mountains of South Asia. It is ruled by King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, who has been king since 2006. Bhutan was founded in 1644 by Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyel. The Bhutanese people are proud they have always been an independent country. Bhutan's capital city is Thimphu. The official language is Dzongkha.

About 600,000 people live in Bhutan. The people and government of Bhutan are proud of their culture which is based on Tibetan Buddhism. 97% of Bhutan's people are Buddhist. 

Until 1974 Bhutan was closed to the outside world. Now people can visit the country, but only in small numbers. The only airport is in Paro district. The country is bordered on the south by the Republic of India and on the north by Tibet, which is part of China since 1949. The main export of Bhutan is hydroelectricity which is sold to India. The economy of Bhutan is very small () 05:48, 22 November 2011 (UTC)but is growing quickly. The currency is the Ngultrum, which is pegged at par with the Indian rupee.


</doc>
<doc id="13784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13784" title="Caucasian">
Caucasian

Caucasian is a term used for a person with pale or white skin. These people first came from Europe. Caucasian was first a geographical term. It referring to the Caucasus region (Caucasia) of central Eurasia. Over time, the term has gotten other meanings:



</doc>
<doc id="13785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13785" title="Voice">
Voice

Voice is when someone is speaking or singing. The sound of their voice can be heard when they are speaking. The musical part of a song that is sung by a person using their voice is called vocals.


</doc>
<doc id="13787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13787" title="Category:1805">
Category:1805


</doc>
<doc id="13788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13788" title="James Madison">
James Madison

James Madison (March 16, 1751 – June 28, 1836) was the fourth President of the United States.

He was the oldest of twelve children. His father and mother were James Madison Sr. and Nellie Conway.

Madison married Dolley Todd nee Payne in April 18, 1794.

Madison started his career in the Virginia state legislature. Madison learned many things from Thomas Jefferson. Madison wanted a strong federal government. He was a member of the meeting that formed the current United States Constitution. Madison is called the "Father of the Constitution" because he helped write a large part of it. Madison helped to get people to approve the Constitution.

Madison was elected to the United States House of Representatives. Madison helped write the first laws for the United States. Madison also was the main writer of the Bill of Rights, the first 10 amendments to the Constitution.

Madison and Jefferson were good friends and helped create the Democratic-Republican Party who wanted a weak federal government.

Madison was selected by Jefferson to be his Secretary of State.

Madison was selected by his political party to be the Democratic-Republican candidate for president in 1808. He won that election and the next election in 1812.

The War of 1812 started while Madison was president. Madison still hoped for peace, but Congress wanted war so he gave in and approved a declaration of war against Britain on June 18, 1812. The war caused Madison to want a stronger government than he had before.

While he originally opposed a national bank, Madison realized that it was necessary and it was impossible to fund a war without it. When the government's national bank expired, Madison renewed it.

Madison retired to Virginia after his second term. Madison died on June 28, 1836.



</doc>
<doc id="13789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13789" title="James Monroe">
James Monroe

James Monroe (April 28, 1758 – July 4, 1831) was the fifth President of the United States.

Monroe was born in Virginia. His father died at age 16. At age 18, he joined the Continental Army. He later studied law with Thomas Jefferson. 

He married Elizabeth Kotright in 1789.

Monroe did not want the United States Constitution to pass. He was elected to the United States Senate in 1790. He helped form the Democratic-Republican Party with Jefferson and James Madison.

Monroe was Governor of Virginia from 1799 - 1802.

Monroe negotiated the Louisiana Purchase. 

Monroe was Madison's Secretary of State and Secretary of War.

Monroe was president from 1817 to 1825. With his Secretary of State John Quincy Adams, Monroe got Spain to give the United States Florida. Monroe and Adams also created the Monroe Doctrine, which was a policy that said that the United States did not want Europe to be involved in the Western Hemisphere anymore. 

Monroe signed the Missouri Compromise. The compromise was delay the slavery issue in the United States.

Monroe was the last president to have fought in the American Revolutionary War.

Monroe retired to Virginia. After his wife's death he moved to New York where he died on July 4, 1831.


</doc>
<doc id="13790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13790" title="Martin Van Buren">
Martin Van Buren

Martin Van Buren (December 5, 1782 – July 24, 1862) was the eighth President of the United States. He was the first president born after the United States Declaration of Independence, making him the first president who was born as a U.S. citizen.

Van Buren was born in Kinderhook, New York, in 1782. Van Buren studied law by working for Francis Sylvester and later became a lawyer in 1803. In 1821 he was elected as a member of the United States Senate, representing New York. President Andrew Jackson selected him as the Secretary of State in 1827. In 1832, he became Vice-President for Jackson, and in 1836, he became the 8th President of the United States. During most of the time he was president, the economy was in very bad shape and he was blamed for it.

Van Buren lost the next presidential election in 1840 to William Henry Harrison. In 1848, he ran again to be president as a part of the Free Soil Party, but he did not win. Van Buren died on July 24, 1862, of heart failure, on his Lindenwald estate.

Martin Van Buren was born on December 5, 1782 in Kinderhook, New York. Van Buren was the third born of five children. His father, Abraham Van Buren, was a farmer and a tavern owner. His mother was Maria Hoes Van Buren, the granddaughter of a Dutch immigrant. Martin Van Buren went to school at the Kinderhook Academy in the village where he lived. At Kinderhook Academy, he excelled in English and Latin. Van Buren left the school when he was 14 years old.

In 1796, Van Buren started working in the law office of Francis Sylvester, an attorney that worked in Kinderhook. He tidied the office, copied documents and did other jobs. While he was working there, he learned about law. After six years under Sylvester, he spent a final year of apprenticeship in the New York City office of William P. Van Ness. Van Buren passed the New York State Bar Exam in 1803, and became a lawyer.

After becoming a lawyer, Van Buren moved back to Kinderhook to work as an attorney with his half-brother, James J. Van Alen, in 1803.

Five years later, Van Buren became the surrogate (legal officer) of Columbia County. There was no prescribed term of office. That is, Van Buren would hold the position until the opposition party secured the council of appointment and could elect someone else in his place. Van Buren held the office about five years until his removal on March 19, 1813.

Van Buren represented New York in the United States Senate from 1821 to 1828. He left the Senate to become the governor of New York in 1829. On March 5, 1829 after he became the governor, President Andrew Jackson made Van Buren the Secretary of State, so Van Buren was only the governor for two months.

From 1833 to 1837, he was the Vice President. (Jackson was still President at this time.)

Just a few months after Van Buren became president, there was a financial crisis called the Panic of 1837. Van Buren believed in limited government, and did not respond in a way that many people wanted. Many people blamed him for the economy becoming worse, and this made him less popular.

Van Buren married Hannah Hoes, a cousin, on February 21, 1807. They had five children together: Abraham, John, Martin Jr., Smith, and Winfield Scott.

Martin Van Buren developed pneumonia in the fall of 1861. After developing pneumonia, he could not move out of his bed. In July, 1862, Van Buren had a serious asthma attack and began to weaken. Van Buren died on July 24, 1862, at his home in Kinderhook, New York, of heart failure. He was 79 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="13794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13794" title="South Holland">
South Holland

South Holland is a province in the west of the Netherlands. It is called "Zuid-Holland" in Dutch. It is surrounded by the North Sea and the provinces North Holland, Utrecht, Guelders, North Brabant, and Zeeland.

3.45 million people live there. The biggest cities are Rotterdam and The Hague. The Hague is the capital of the province. The Hague is also the administrative capital of the Netherlands. That means that the parliament is there.

Rotterdam has the largest port of Europe. Leiden, Gouda, and Delft have town centers with many old buildings. Zoetermeer is a quite new city. Most of it was built in the 1970s. Another important city is Dordrecht.

In South Holland there are some typical Dutch landscapes. Near Leiden there is a region that is known as the "Bollenstreek" ("bulb district"). In springtime many large fields with flowers can be found here. These fields are called "bulb fields". Near Rotterdam there is a small village called Kinderdijk with 19 windmills near each other.

The area south of The Hague is called Westland. Here are many greenhouses.

The south of the province has many islands. The largest of them are Voorne-Putten, Goeree-Overflakkee, IJsselmonde, the Hoeksche Waard and the island of Dordrecht. These big islands are connected by bridges and/or tunnels.

The most important rivers and other bodies of waters are Nieuwe Maas, Nieuwe Waterweg, Oude Maas, Haringvliet, and Hollands Diep.



</doc>
<doc id="13795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13795" title="Grand Theft Auto">
Grand Theft Auto

Grand Theft Auto is a series of video games. The first was released in the late 90s. This game was played from a bird's-eye view, meaning that it was like playing the game from a helicopter. The second was called "GTA 2" and also a add-on pack was added for the first game called "GTA: London" which was set in the 60s.

Then came the next games which were made in 3D which changed the way Grand Theft Auto was played. The first in the 3D series was called "Grand Theft Auto III" which was set in Liberty City which is like New York. Then there was "" which was set in the middle 80s. It was very much like Miami in Florida. The latest game in the 3D series is called "" which is based on Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas. This game was a very big improvement from the older game because the map was so much bigger.

"Grand Theft Auto IV" ("GTA IV") was officially announced at the Microsoft 2006 E3 Press Conference on May 10, 2006. Grand Theft Auto IV is now being sold inside stores starting now... Grand Theft Auto IV now has 2 episodes, and a complete collection.

There has been a lot of arguing, or "controversy," about these games. Many people do not like how the player can murder random people, and sleep with prostitutes. Because of this, all 3-D GTA games have been rated Mature so far.




</doc>
<doc id="13796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13796" title="The Black Eyed Peas">
The Black Eyed Peas

Black Eyed Peas are an American hip-hop group from Los Angeles, California. The group has four members: will.i.am, Apl.de.ap, Taboo and Fergie. 
Before being the Black Eyed Peas.

Member of this group and its history:

- Stacy Ann Ferguson better known by her stage name Fergie, was born in March 27th,1975. She is an American R&B/Hip-Hop singer, actress and songwritten. She was revealed by the TV series for kids " Kids incorporated " and the TV show " Great Pretenders ".
The tv revealed her talents and she began her career of singer with the trio Wild Orchid which became the group of the Black Eyed Peas. She acted in Nine which came out in theatres in 2010.

- Will.i.am of his real name William Adams was born in March 15th, 1975. He is an American rapper. Will.i.am rose to fame as frontmas, co-founder of the Hip-Hop and is a former of the R&B, rap and pop group "Black Eyed Peas". He has recently left interscope for a solo deal with Def Jam.

-Allan Pineda Lindo better known by his stage name Apl.de.ap is a Filipino American Hip- Hop musician and producer. He was born in November 28th, 1974 in Angeles City in the Philippines, from the age of 11 and he moved to the United State because he was adopted by the Hudgen's family.
And began his career of singer and former the group of "Atban Klann" with Will.i.am which become the group of"Black Eyed Peas" when Taboo entered this group in 1995.

-Taboo of his real name Jaime Luis Gomez, was born in July 14th, 1975 in Los Angeles. He has a son nomed "Josh" who was born in December 5th, 1993. He joined the Black Eyed Peas in 1995.

Before they became popular the group's members were will.i.am, apl.de.ap, Taboo and backing vocalist Kim Hill, She left the group in 2000 and was replaced in 2003 by Fergie, they first became popular with the single "Where Is The Love" and the album "Elephunk" and their next album, Monkey Business was also successful. They have more recently released "The E.N.D.", an album that has the successful singles "Boom Boom Pow" and "I Gotta Feeling".



</doc>
<doc id="13800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13800" title="PlayStation Portable">
PlayStation Portable

The PlayStation Portable, or PSP, is Sony's second video game console to be a handheld after the PocketStation. It was made in Japan and came out there first on December 12, 2004. After that, it came out in North America on March 24, 2005 and came out in Europe on September 1, 2005.
It was first announced in 2003 at E3 and then next year its first design was shown off. It can play PSP video games, as well as music, video, and pictures. To transfer music, videos, or pictures to a PSP, you must use a USB cable to send the files from a computer to it. The games and movies come on a disc called the "Universal Media Disc" which holds 1.8 GB (this is a lot more than a normal CD but less than a DVD). A Memory Stick Pro Duo can also be used for memory storage. The PlayStation Portable is the first handheld game console to use a disc as its media storage instead of a cartridge.

There are many games out for the PSP, over 500. The movies look like the DVD. The reason the PSP can have movies is because the disk (Universal Media Disc) has a lot of memory space. For many countries, Spider-Man 2 (the movie), for example, was included for free with the console.

The PSP is wireless, meaning it can connect to the Internet (and other PlayStation Portables) without any cables. This is called Wi-Fi. This allows players who are traveling to download items, surf the web and play online. The PlayStation Portable can also connect with the PlayStation 3 as a sort of remote control for movie playback and for downloading content.

There have been four versions of the original PSP, the PSP-1000 (also known as "PSP fat"), the PSP N-1000 (exclusive features.) PSP-2000 ("slim and light" edition, a lighter version of the original PSP) and the PSP-3000 ("bright and light" edition, that includes a built in microphone and improved LCD).
The PSP Go is the latest version of Sony's handheld, now with a sliding screen design, bluetooth and internal storage of 16GB replacing the UMD Drive. Sony recently revealed the succesor of the PSP, which is called Vita. It will be released in early 2012.

The PlayStation Portable is similar to the Nintendo DS, because they are both for games you can take with you. However, Nintendo and Sony said they were made for different people. The DS has sold more units than the PSP.


</doc>
<doc id="13804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13804" title="Abortion">
Abortion

In mammals, an abortion is when a pregnancy ends early without the birth of babies. Abortions can occur naturally, usually because something went wrong with the pregnancy. When this happens, it is called a miscarriage. Humans can also end the pregnancy on purpose before birth takes place. This is called an induced abortion.

A developing human takes about thirty-eight weeks to grow and be born. Normally, this occurs about forty weeks after the mother's last menstrual period. This developing human is called "embryo" for the first eight weeks of the pregnancy, and "fetus" for the remaining thirty-two.

There are two kinds (or types) of abortion. Sometimes, things go wrong during a pregnancy. These things may lead to the death of the embryo or fetus. Depending on what time in pregnancy they happen in, such abortions are called "miscarriage" or "stillbirth".

In some cases finishing the pregnancy might be very dangerous for the pregnant woman. 
Giving birth might also be very difficult for her, she may have many worries, or she might not want to have a baby at all. In such cases, things can be done to end the pregnancy on purpose. This is called an "induced abortion". 

In both types of abortion, the embryo or fetus usually comes out of the womb. This is called a "complete" abortion. In some cases, the embryo or fetus remains inside the womb. This is called a "missed" abortion. Surgery is needed to remove the embryo or fetus from the womb so the woman does not get an infection.

People speak of "spontaneous abortion" or "miscarriage" when the embryo or fetus is lost due to natural causes before the 20th week of pregnancy. A pregnancy that ends this way, but that is between 20 and 37 weeks old is known as "premature birth" if the baby is born alive. If the fetus dies in the womb after 20 weeks, or while it is born, this is known as "stillbirth". Premature births and stillbirths are generally not considered to be miscarriages.

Spontaneous abortions (miscarriages) are common. About fifteen percent of pregnancies end in spontaneous abortion. In many cases, the woman is not even aware she was pregnant. The pregnancy is only a few days or weeks old and the woman believes the miscarriage is just her menses. About twenty-five percent of all women will have a spontaneous abortion during their lives.

Most miscarriages occur very early. Between ten and fifty percent of pregnancies end with a miscarriage,
where the mother or the doctors are aware of it. These figures depend on the age and health of the pregnant woman. Most spontaneous abortions occur so early in the pregnancy that the woman is not even aware that she was pregnant. One particular study showed a rate of pregnancy in exposed ovulatory cycles of 59.6%; with 61.9% of conceptuses lost before twelve weeks. 91.7% of these occuried subclinically, without the knowledge of the mother.

The risk of spontaneous abortion decreases sharply after the 10th week of pregnancy, with a loss rate between 8.5 weeks LMP and birth of about two percent; pregnancy loss is “virtually complete by the end of the embryonic period."

Those people who have already had several spontaneous or induced abortions run a greater risk of having a spontaneous one. Those with certain diseases, and those over the age 35 also run a greater risk. Other causes for abortions can be the infection of either the woman or embryo/fetus, or their immune response. Certain diseases or an accidental trauma can also cause a spontaneous abortion. Putting the woman under trauma or stress to cause miscarriage is considered induced abortion. Some countries call this feticide.

Most miscarriages are due to problems with the copying of chromosomes, but some are caused by environmental factors. When a human is conceived, it gets 23 chromosomes from its mother and 23 from its father. If it does not get the right number its development happens wrong (it does not grow right.) It may have many bad birth defects.

Most embryos and fetuses with chromosome problems will not live for a long time. They die very early. There are a few chromosome problems that babies can sometimes be born with. For example, Down Syndrome happens when there are three copies of chromosome #21. (Usually people have 2 of every chromosome.) This is called "trisomy 21" (tri- means 3.)

The most common symptom is bleeding from the vagina. This can be very little blood (less blood than a normal menses.) It can be very much blood (much more than a normal menses.)
Some women have bad pains in their low abdomen when they have a miscarriage. This is sometimes like the pain of menses. It can be much worse. Or a woman may have no pain at all. If the pregnancy is many weeks old, the woman may see the embryo or fetus when it comes out. But if it is less than 12 weeks old a woman may not see anything but blood.

Sometimes no treatment is needed. Sometimes doctors do a surgical abortion. This is the same kind of surgery that is done for induced abortions. Sometimes doctors give women medicines to help the miscarriage finish without needing surgery.

An induced abortion is when things are done to end the pregnancy on purpose. These things are normally done by doctors. In countries where abortion can be done legally, it is often done by specialists who know a lot about women's bodies (gynecologists). Abortions done illegally are often performed by people without this special knowledge. This makes them more dangerous. Such abortions are usually called unsafe abortions, back-alley abortions or DIY abortions, mainly because the risk to the health of the mother is much higher than with abortions carried out by skilled doctors. 

There can be medical reasons, why an abortion is performed. These include:

Surgical induced abortions are where the embryo or fetus is taken out by a physical act. The kind of surgical abortion done depends on how long the pregnancy has gone on. It is easier in earlier stages of the pregnancy. There are less problems that can occur. So it is best to do a surgical abortion as early as possible.

Medical abortions are where a doctor gives a woman a medicine to end the pregnancy. There are two medicines used for this. The medicines are mifepristone (RU-486) and methotrexate. These two medicines both stop the pregnancy. Then the abortion happens like a "spontaneous" abortion.

A pregnancy that ends without a child being born also may cause some problems to the woman this happens to. There are two broad groups of things that can happen:

Abortion is safer than childbirth if it is done before the 16th week of pregnancy and it is done by a professional. Certain methods of abortion are pretty safe, and complications are rare. Generally, stopping a pregnancy that has gone on longer is riskier.

Women usually feel a small amount of pain during first-trimester abortion. In a 1979 study of 2,299 patients, 97% reported having some amount of pain. Patients rated the pain as being less than earache or toothache, but more than headache or backache.

Local and general anesthesias are used during the abortion.

Few studies have been done to see if an abortion affects the woman psychologically, or mentally. Those that have been done give contradictory results. One study looked at 13.000 women who had become pregnant even though they did not want to. The study found that having an induced abortion does not increase the risk of getting mental health problems; the group that was compared were women who also did not want to have a baby, but who did not have an abortion. Other studies showed similar results: women who had an abortion did better in school or at work after the abortion. Another study showed that women who had an abortion had a higher self-esteem and felt better than those who did not.

Many women who had an abortion felt better afterwards, they also felt relieved. They would do it again in a similar situation.

A study done in New Zealand in 2006 showed that many women who had an abortion developed severe depressions up to 4 years after they had the abortion. They were also more likely have problems with alcohol and illegal drugs than those women who did not have an abortion. The person who oversaw the study later told media that given these results it would be very hard to say that having an abortion has no psychological effects on the womam who has is. He called the abortion "a traumatic experience".

Both spontaneous and induced abortions have some risk for the woman.

If a bad thing happens because of a surgery or medicine that a doctor gives, or because of a miscarriage, it is called a "complication". Complications of abortions can be infection, bleeding, pain. There may or may not be problems getting pregnant again; this is still being researched. In places where induced abortions are legal less than 1% of induced abortions have a bad complication. If doctors do induced abortions, the risk to the woman is less than the risk of complications of childbirth (giving birth to a baby). In places where induced abortions are legal, less women have complications of induced abortion than in places where induced abortion is illegal. This is because induced abortions that are not done by doctors have much more risks. For example, after induced abortions became legal in the United States in 1973, less women died from having abortions. In the United States in 2000, 11 women died from the complications of legal abortion. The risk of death from a legal abortion is 1/100 of the risk of an appendectomy. The risk of death from an injection (shot) of penicillin (an antibiotic) is bigger than the risk of death from a legal abortion.

There can be emotional problems for the woman after a spontaneous or induced abortion. She may feel sad, angry, or guilty that she had a miscarriage or asked for an abortion. She may think she has done something that made the miscarriage happen, or that having an abortion was the wrong thing to do, and because of this she may feel intense grief. There are many places where women can get help dealing with these feelings.

Some women who have induced abortions may get criticism from friends or family who have different beliefs. When scientists look at this in research studies, however, they do not usually see that women have emotional problems after induced abortions. In 1987, President Ronald Reagan told the Surgeon General of the US to look at this question. Both president Reagan and the Surgeon General C. Everett Koop did not think abortion was right. Dr Koop looked at 250 papers that scientists wrote in scientific journals. Dr Koop said that the science we know does not show that induced abortions cause emotional problems for women who have them.

The number of induced abortions done are different for different parts of the world. This is also true for the reasons why women decide to have an abortion. Estimates are that about 46 million induced abortions are done worldwide, every year. 26 million of them occur in places where abortion is legal, 20 million happen in countries where it is illegal to have an abortion. Some countries, like Belgium (11.2 per 100 known pregnancies) and the Netherlands (10.6 per 100) have a low rate of induced abortion. Others, like Russia (62.6 per 100) and Vietnam (43.7 per 100) have a comparatively high rate. Overall, there are 26 induced abortions per 100 known pregnancies.

Abortion rates vary. The length the pregnancy has gone on, and the method used to do the abortion influence these rates. According to data collected in the United States, 88.2% of abortions were done in the first twelve weeks of pregnancy, 10.4% between week 13 and week 20 of the pregnancy. The remaining 1.4% were done in week 21 or later. 

90.9% were done by curettage, 7.7% were medical abortions (using drugs, mifepristone in most cases), 0.4% by "intrauterine instillation" (saline or prostaglandin), and 1.0% by "other" (including hysterotomy and hysterectomy). The Guttmacher Institute estimated there were 2,200 intact dilation and extraction procedures in the U.S. during 2000 - 0.17% of the total number of abortions performed that year. Similarly, in England and Wales in 2006, 89% of terminations occurred at or under 12 weeks, 9% between 13 and 19 weeks, and 1.5% at or over 20 weeks. 64% of those reported were by vacuum aspiration, 6% by D&E, and 30% were medical. Later abortions are more common in China, India, and other developing countries than in developed countries.

In 1998, a study was done in 27 countries. This study wanted to find the reasons, why women wanted to end their pregnancy. It found that women often gave one of the following reasons:

A different study, done in the United States in 2004 came to similar conclusions. 

Women who had an abortion in Finland and the United States usually did not state that the pregnancy posed a risk to their health. In Bangladesh, India and Kenya, however, more such women thought the pregnancy was a risk to their health. 1% of women in the 2004 survey-based U.S. study became pregnant as a result of rape and 0.5% as a result of incest. Another American study in 2002 concluded that 54% of women who had an abortion were using a form of contraception at the time of becoming pregnant. Inconsistent use was reported by 49% of those using condoms and 76% of those using the combined oral contraceptive pill; 42% of those using condoms reported failure through slipping or breakage. The Guttmacher Institute estimated that "most abortions in the United States are obtained by minority women" because minority women "have much higher rates of unintended pregnancy."

Some women have an abortion because the society they live in pressures them to. 
Any of these factors might force a pregnant woman to have an abortion.

Induced abortion is not legal in every place. In some countries, a doctor who does an induced abortion is committing a "crime". In the United States, Canada, and many countries in Europe abortion is legal (not a crime). In some countries like Ireland and Somalia it is legal only to save the life of the woman. If a woman is raped in Ireland and becomes pregnant, she cannot get an induced abortion. In some countries like Chile and El Salvador, abortion is never legal, including in cases where the woman risks dying from continuing the pregnancy.

In countries where induced abortion is not legal many more women die from abortion. Women still get induced abortions, but they cannot get them in safe hospitals and clinics. These induced abortions have more complications than abortions done by doctors.

Women who live in places where abortion is illegal, or heavily frowned upon sometimes travel to other places where an abortion can be done legally, so they can have an abortion. This is a form of medical tourism.

Spontaneous abortion occurs in various mammals. In sheep, it may be caused by crowding through doors, or by being chased by dogs. In cows, abortion may be caused by contagious diseases, such as Brucellosis or Campylobacter. This can often be controlled by vaccination, though. 

Abortion may also be induced in animals, in the context of animal husbandry. For example, abortion may be induced in mares that have been mated improperly, or that have been purchased by owners who did not realize the mares were pregnant, or that are pregnant with twin foals.

Feticide can occur in horses and zebras. Usually this is done because males harass pregnant mares or force copulation. Scientists have raised the question, how often this occurs in the wild, though. Male Gray langur monkeys may attack females following male takeover, causing miscarriage.

Induced abortion is a subject that is controversial. Each person has a system of moral values. Based on their system of morals, people have different opinions about it. Religion can also influence this opinion. 
A number of opinion polls have been carried out around the world. They have tried to find out what people think about abortion. Results were different for different countries, but also varied with the questions that were asked. 

In May 2005, a survey was done in ten European countries. The people were asked, if they could agree with the statement: "If a woman does not want children, she should be allowed to have an abortion". The highest level of approval was 81% in the Czech Republic; the lowest was 47% in Poland.

A poll was done in November 2001. The poll asked people in Canada in what circumstances they believed an abortion should be permitted. 32% responded that they believe abortion should be legal in all circumstances, 52% that it should be legal in certain circumstances, and 14% that it should never be legal. A similar poll in April 2009 surveyed people in the United States about abortion; 18% said that abortion should be "legal in all cases", 28% said that abortion should be "legal in most cases", 28% said abortion should be "illegal in most cases" and 16% said abortion should be "illegal in all cases". A November 2005 poll in Mexico found that 73.4% think abortion should not be legalized while 11.2% think it should.

Of attitudes in South America, a December 2003 survey found that 30% of Argentines thought that abortion should be allowed in Argentina "regardless of situation", 47% that it should be allowed "under some circumstances", and 23% that it should not be allowed "regardless of situation". A March 2007 poll about abortion in Brazil found that 65% of Brazilians believe that it "should not be modified", 16% that it should be expanded "to allow abortion in other cases", 10% that abortion should be "decriminalized", and 5% were "not sure". A July 2005 poll in Colombia found that 65.6% said they thought that abortion should remain illegal, 26.9% that it should be made legal, and 7.5% that they were unsure.

Some people feel very strongly about abortion. People who think that abortion is wrong and that the law should not allow it are called "pro-life". People who think think the law should let women choose to have abortions are called "pro-choice". 

People who are pro-life believe that all humans, including embryos and fetuses, have a right to life. For this reason, they believe abortion is wrong, sometimes comparing it to murder. They think the law should make abortion a crime in order to protect embryos and fetuses. However, though pro-life people think abortion is wrong, there are special cases in which they will sometimes support allowing an abortion to happen, like if the pregnancy puts the woman's life at risk or if she got pregnant from rape. Pro-life people think women who are pregnant and do not want to raise a child should give the baby up for adoption instead of having an abortion. They have started advocacy groups, like the American Life League, to try to convince more people to think abortion is wrong and to try to get governments to make laws to restrict abortion. Sometimes, people who are against abortion have used violence to try to stop abortions from happening, like bombing the "clinics" that do abortions or shooting the people who work inside them. However, most people who are against abortion do not do such things and believe that they are wrong, and so they try to stop abortions from happening through peaceful activism.

People who are pro-choice believe that women should be allowed to have control over their own bodies when it comes to ending or continuing a pregnancy. They believe that, because the embryo or fetus is inside the woman's body and does not have developed enough organs to survive on its own until later in the pregnancy, it is not yet a person with rights. Pro-choice people also make the argument that abortion needs to be legal in order to protect women, because when abortion is illegal, it does not completely stop abortions from happening, but makes it so that women try to do abortions on themselves or get them done by people who are not trained doctors, which puts those women in danger of death or injury. Pro-choice people believe the way to prevent abortion is to make sure women only get pregnant when they want to. In addition to advocating the legality of abortion, pro-choice groups like Planned Parenthood often try to improve people's access to things used to prevent pregnancy (called "contraception"), and try to teach young people about sex to reduce the number of teen pregnancies.

Many religions have a view on abortion. These views span a broad spectrum from acceptance to rejection. Most religions generally oppose abortion. 

Generally, when there is a debate about whether abortion laws should be changed in a country, there are advocacy groups. Some of the arguments these groups often have are outlined below.

There is a hypothesis that induced abortion raises the risk of getting breast cancer. People who support this, call it a "link", rather than a "hypothesis".
The subject has been controversial, but currently, scientists agree that there is no link between abortion in the first trimester, and increasing the risk to get breast cancer.

In early pregnancy, levels of estrogen increase. This causes the breast to grow, and to prepare for lactation. In the 1890s, studies were done on rats, before this hypothesis was put forward.

It is currently unclear from what moment the embryo or fetus can feel pain. This is also used in the debate about abortion. Many researchers think that a fetus is unlikely to feel pain until after the seventh month of pregnancy. Others disagree. At about twenty-six weeks of pregnancy, certain connections are made in the thalamus of the growing fetus. Developmental neurobiologists suspect that these connections may be critical to perception of pain by the fetus. However, legislation has been proposed by pro-life advocates requiring abortion providers to tell a woman that the embryo or fetus may feel pain during an abortion procedure. But as the law states that its only legal to terminate before twenty weeks there is no likely wood that the embryo would feel anything.

Researchers from the University of California, San Francisco published a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association. The study analyzed data from dozens of medical reports and other studies. The researchers concluded that fetuses are unlikely to feel pain until the third trimester of pregnancy. However a number of medical critics have since disputed these conclusions. There are certain connections in the thalamus of the fetuse. These connections develop at about twenty-six weeks of pregnancy. At the end of the 20th century there was an emerging consensus among developmental neurobiologists that these connections are very important when it comes to the perception of pain in the fetus. Other researchers such as Anand and Fisk have challenged this late date, positing that pain can be felt around twenty weeks. 
Pain can have many different aspects: It might be purely relying on sensory input, but it might also involve emotions and thought. For this reason, it is perhaps impossible to know exactly when the embryo or fetus feels pain, even if it has developed the links in the thalamus.



</doc>
<doc id="13805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13805" title="Clock">
Clock

A clock is a device that tells the time. Some clocks can give the date as well as the time. There are different types of clocks. A watch is a type of clock that is small and can be carried. Watches are usually worn on a person's wrist. At one time, watches were commonly kept in the person's pocket. 

Clocks use different ways to tell time. Clocks need some sort of steady beat or motion. to track the change in time. Ancient water clocks worked by the steady movement of water from a container with a hole in the bottom to another container without a hole. Other clocks use springs and gears to track the change in time correctly.

Digital clocks work by measuring the vibrations of quartz crystals when charged with electricity. The amount of vibrations from a quartz crystal per second does not change. 

Atomic clocks use the electromagnetic waves absorbed and emitted by atoms such as caesium to measure time. They are the most precise clocks in the world.

There are many types of clocks and watches. The two most common types of displays on clocks are "analog" and "digital" . 

Analog clocks use angles to tell time. They have "hands" that rotate around the clock's "face". The position of the hands shows the time. The face of the clock is a flat disk. It will often have the numbers one through twelve on the face to make it easier to read. Analog clocks commonly have two or three hands. If it has two, there is a large hand or "minute hand" and a smaller hand, the "hour hand". Clocks with three hands also have a "second hand". This hand is usually about as long as the minute hand, but much thinner. Each hand shows the time it is named for and moves around the face of the clock one complete rotation for each movement to the next larger hand. For example, the second hand moves around the face of the clock in 60 seconds. It moves once each second. When it moves all the way around the clock, the minute hand moves forward one space. When the minute hand moves all the way around the face of the clock (which takes 60 minutes), the hour hand moves forward one section. The second and minute hands take 60 movements to move all around the face of the clock, the hour hand only needs 12 movements to do the same. 

Digital clocks use numbers to show the time. LCDs and LEDs are common for digital clocks. Unlike analog clocks which are based on 12 hours, digital clocks can use either a 12-hour clock (often with "am" for morning and "pm" for afternoon/night) or a 24-hour clock. Digital clocks are usually smaller and easier to both use and read than analog clocks but they can also be made much larger. New digital clocks can even correct themselves using the internet or radio signals. 

A small number of clocks will use sound to show the time. The sound could be as simple as a bell or so complex that it sounds the same as a person. These clocks are often used by people who are blind or cannot see well enough to read an analog or digital clock. They can also be used by people with mental problems that cause them to be unable to read other clocks.

Water clocks were used by the ancient English.

There are many different types of clocks and watches. They are different in what they are used for, what they can do or how they are made. Examples include:



</doc>
<doc id="13809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13809" title="Sexual orientation">
Sexual orientation

Sexual orientation is a term that means what kinds of people a person loves or has sexual or romantic feelings about. A person can love somebody of the same gender (sex), somebody of the other gender, both, or neither.

The words that are used the most to talk about somebody's sexual orientation are:

Pansexuality

Words that are sometimes also used to talk about somebody's sexual orientation are:


Not everyone agrees that some of these last terms are really sexual orientations. For example, a person can have a fetish and still be either heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual. A person can also be transgender or transsexual and still be either heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual.

Many people have been discriminated against because of their sexual orientation. In many cultures, people who are homosexual or bisexual have been teased (made fun of), fired from their job, or made to suffer violence because of who they are. In many countries and states, there are laws against having sex with somebody of the same gender, and people can be put in jail because of who they have sex with. In the United States, these laws were struck down (repealed) by the United States Supreme Court in the last few years.


</doc>
<doc id="13810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13810" title="Smiley">
Smiley

A smiley (also called a "smiley face" and an "emoticon") is a picture of a smiling face that is used to show emotion. The first smileys to be widely used were made as yellow buttons, but now the most common smileys are made using computer keyboard symbols. Smileys are used by many people in emails and other types of computer messages. A "smiley" is also sometimes spelt wrongly as "smily" or "smilie".

There were a number of early uses of simple graphics representing a smiling face. Some of these used a large circle containing two dots for eyes and a curve for the mouth. The most well-known smiley face was created in 1963 by Harvey Ball for an insurance company in Massachusetts. This design was a bright yellow circle representing a face, with black oval eyes and a big curved mouth with smile creases at the ends.

The design was made popular in the early 1970s by a pair of brothers, Murray and Bernard Spain, who though of a great plan to sell novelty items. The two used the "smiley face" on buttons as well to decorate coffee mugs, t-shirts, bumper stickers and many other things. They also used the phrase "Have a happy day" (which was the idea of Gyula Bogar). "Smiley" buttons were very popular from the 1970s onwards.

Smiley is a brand developed by Franklin Loufrani since 1971. He controls Smileyworld Ltd, a company whose mission is to make the world a happier place to live. Its brand Smiley is sold all over the world in several lifestyle industries, and its designers are constantly developing very creative and edgy products. The company donates ten percent of its royalties to a charity called the Smiley World Association, active with social actions in several countries. Its baseline is "Share your smile with those in need".

In 1997 Franklin's son Nicolas Loufrani has started to create a new world with icons based on the original Smiley logo. Today over 1200 icons are used as part of a brand called Smileyworld. This brand is based on a communication concept aimed at helping people to communicate better through various social expression products (greeting cards, gifts, etc.). It is also an educative project with books, toys, interactive products as well as a lifestyle brand for children.

Smiley has been a registered trademark since 1971. The Smiley name and logo now registered and used in over 100 countries for 25 classes of goods and services. More than 1200 Smiley emoticons are registered with the Washington Library of Congress and protected by the Universal Copyrights Convention. In the past 10 years, Smileyworld Ltd has signed more than 800 licensing contracts worldwide and has been using its rights in most classes of goods and services in all important countries on the 5 continents. Smileyworld Ltd works with over 60 law firms to protect its IP.

In the 1990s people started using the internet and emails as a regular way of communicating. So that they could show happiness or fun in an easy way, people started making little smiling faces using some of the symbols on the keyboard. A keyboard smiley has a colon ":" for the eyes, a hyphen "-" for the nose, and a parenthesis ")" for the mouth. Some people make the smiley without the hyphen for a nose. The "smileys" that are made in this way are sideways.

Here is a smiley:

When you tilt your head to the left, it looks like a smiling face.

Smileys are usually used as part of a written message, but sometimes a smiley is just sent on its own to say "I am happy with your last message." Smileys are a useful way to show feelings to someone who cannot see the face of person sending the message.

From the smiley came other ideas for showing emotions using keyboard symbols:

Some people use different symbols, or do not use a nose, etc.

O( -.- )O



</doc>
<doc id="13812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13812" title="Flamenco">
Flamenco

Flamenco is a style of entertainment with song, music and dance. Its foundation is in Andalusia in Spain. In its evolution Andalusian Gypsies played an important part. The term 'flamenco' was first recorded in the late 18th century but many believe the art form is much older.

Flamenco has acoustic guitar music, singing, hand claps, heel stamps, castanets. It is danced by a man and a woman in traditional Spanish costumes. The dance has no set tempo. It may have both fast and slow passages, rising to a climax near the end. 

On November 16, 2010, UNESCO declared Flamenco one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.


Examples of flamenco:


</doc>
<doc id="13814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13814" title="Cream (band)">
Cream (band)

Cream was a British rock band in the late 1960s. They played and recorded together from 1966 to 1969. The members of the group were Eric Clapton, Jack Bruce, and Ginger Baker. They were called a power trio, as there were three musicians, who all played essential roles in the band. Their sound of heavy blues-rock was a great influence on many other bands.

Cream's hit records included the songs "Strange Brew", "Sunshine Of Your Love" and "White Room". Their last album, titled "Goodbye", included a song called "Badge", co-written by Eric Clapton and George Harrison of The Beatles.



</doc>
<doc id="13815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13815" title="Blind Faith">
Blind Faith

Blind Faith was a rock group, that only were together for about one year (1969). It was formed by Eric Clapton (who had been in the band Cream) and Steve Winwood (who was in the band Traffic). Also in the band were Ginger Baker (who was Cream's drummer) and Rick Grech (who was in the band "Family"). Clapton, Winwood, and many other people had high expectations for the new band, but many people did not like the new stuff they were doing, and wanted to hear music like Cream and Traffic made. The name of the band came about as a result of the "blind faith" shown by many people, who had assumed that the band would go on to greatness. Many people did not like the band and they broke up. Before they broke they released a self-titled album, which caused controversy, because it only had six songs and featured a naked teenage girl holding a toy airplane on the cover, an image which upset some people.


</doc>
<doc id="13816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13816" title="Template:Nosources">
Template:Nosources

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="13818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13818" title="The Guess Who">
The Guess Who

The Guess Who is a Canadian rock band. They formed in Winnipeg in 1963 and broke up in 1975. Their best known songs include, "American Woman", "Share The Land", "No Time", and "These Eyes".


</doc>
<doc id="13819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13819" title="Wikipedia:How to copy-edit">
Wikipedia:How to copy-edit

This page refers to copy-editing (or "proofreading") a Wikipedia page; in other words, correcting for spelling, grammar, punctuation, tone, style and so on. 

When you copy-edit a page, you are helping the author and Wikipedia to express ideas in the best, most accurate and clearest way possible. Obvious mistakes look bad, and they should be corrected as soon as possible. 

Discussion and talk pages are not as formal, and do not have to be copy-edited.

For general page editing help, see .

Sometimes, readers complain saying: "Why aren't these pages copy-edited?" Or, if they have been here a bit longer: "Why aren't these pages wikified?" ("Wikifying" is the process of adding links and basic formatting). The answer, of course, is very simple: it's because you, and others like you, have not fixed mistakes when you saw them. Instead of complaining, you could have corrected them yourself (simply click on the
"change this page" tab at the top of the page, fix, and save), which would have stopped others from wondering the same thing. This is usually easier, faster, and less emotional than taking the time to type a complaint. So be bold! - go out there and do some copy-editing now!

If you find an article that is in such bad shape that you cannot fix it yourself in one sitting, you can tag it for cleanup assistance by other users. See for help.


If you see any mistakes, please correct them (even if they are very small ). This greatly helps with making Wikipedia look as professional as possible.

Note that the English form of Wikipedia has no preference for American, British or other forms of English so long as usage is consistent for the whole page. Check the rest of the page before assuming that "flavour", "colour", "metre", or "defence" (or, on the other hand, "flavor", "color", "meter", or "defense") is a mistake. Note that the endings "-ize" and "-ization" are acceptable in both British and American English.


Correct grammar is just as valuable as correct spelling. Feel free to correct grammar mistakes and clear up confusing wording. If you can phrase a sentence better, rephrase it! Just make sure it keeps its original meaning (unless that is wrong too).

All main Wikipedia pages should have a formal, encyclopedic style. Correcting for style can be a harder job, involving rearrangement of sentences, paragraphs, or perhaps even the whole article. However, this does not have to be done all at the same time, and it is still helpful to update just one paragraph or sentence.

Generally, it helps to get the rough form of a page correct (possibly with headings), before updating individual paragraphs and then sentences, but doing things in this order is by no means required.

Pages sometimes have information that doesn't belong on that page, or would go better on another page. For example, a general article about "fruit" should not give detailed information about "bananas". Instead, this information should be moved to a more detailed article. If you do this, please add the information to the new page before deleting it from the old — and it is polite to mention the move in your note. For example: "moved detailed quantum mechanics formula out of this physics page and into the quantum mechanics page".

"See also" sections: These should be in their own section if relevant to the majority of the article, and of the short form if relevant only to a specific section. 

Words that are mentioned as words should be italicized. For example: "The term "style" can refer to the layout and context of an article."

Headings should usually be nouns (for example: "History") and not prepositional phrases ("About the history of..."), and they should have only the first letter capitalized (apart from proper nouns, etc).

Shortened word forms ("don't", "can't", etc.) should be written out ("do not, cannot"), unless in quotations.

External links at the end of an article belong under a heading titled "Other websites".

Change summary notes for copy-edits should be short, and mention that the change in question is a correction or improvement. Spelling and grammar corrections can generally be marked as ; major style corrections and rearrangements generally should not be marked 'small'.

Example summary notes:<br>
"copy-edit: Corrected minor typo"<br>
"copy-edit: Reworded introductory paragraph for clarity"<br>
"copy-edit: Reworked history section for more encyclopedic style"<br>

but never:<br>
"Reworked awful English, corrected author's bad language skills" (see Etiquette section below)

Your summary note will only appear in places where other will see them: in the history of the article, and on recent changes, watchlists, etc.

If you are taking the trouble to copy-edit a page, please remember that the original author took the trouble to write a new page for Wikipedia, and that however good or bad it is, the article is probably a valuable contribution. Your summary note should be short and polite, and not written to make the original writer feel stupid or foolish.

If a page you wrote has been copy-edited by another editor, try not to take the corrections personally. This can be especially hard sometimes with style differences. Copy-editors are usually just trying to make the article better, which will reflect well on all the authors, including the first one.



</doc>
<doc id="13820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13820" title="Template:Wikify">
Template:Wikify


</doc>
<doc id="13821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13821" title="Wikipedia:Guide to layout">
Wikipedia:Guide to layout

The Wikipedia Guide to Layout is only a quick explanation of some of the easy parts of laying out an article. For more detail about style guidelines, see the . For greater detail about how to use wiki markup, see . 

This little article is a summary of what some fairly clean, simple Wikipedia articles look like. For more complicated articles and 'tricks', it sometimes helps to copy the markup of some article you like the looks of.

The subject of the article should be mentioned in bold text (<nowiki>subject</nowiki>) in the first sentence, or at least the first paragraph. The name of the subject is usually the same as the page title.

If the article is long enough to have several paragraphs, the first paragraph should be short and to the point, with a clear explanation of what the subject of the page is.

If more of an introduction is needed before the first header, then this can be given in extra paragraphs. It is common for introductions to articles about persons to be like summaries, mentioning the most famous things about the subject.

Introductions should come before the section headers; they should not be in an <nowiki>==Introduction==</nowiki> section of their own. If there are at least four headers, the table of contents will automatically follow the introduction, just before the first named section.

"Wikified" articles link important words to their own article. For example, an article might just link pancakes without having to explain what they are. Or an article about laser beams might give helpful background information by following the link from another article. Not every word should be linked, just helpful ones, which are usually nouns and names that would have articles. If there are no articles with that name, the link will show up in red, which shows that it has not been written yet and may need to be written. Long stretches without any links are not common. Useful links that are not mentioned in the article body can be added to the "see also" section near the end.

Paragraphs should be kept rather short, because the eye of a reader can get tired of following solid text for too many lines. Most normal articles should be written in paragraphs, not bullet points. But lists can be used for reference.

Headers also help make an article clearer and easy to see the structure in the table of contents. On the other hand, try not to use too many subheaders that are not needed, because this can make the article look messy. Short paragraphs and single sentences normally do not need their own sub-heading, and in these cases it may be better to use bullet points or bold text instead.

Editors should use their judgment in deciding whether subtopics should have their own pages, or be kept on the main page.

If the article can be illustrated with pictures, find an appropriate place to position these images. For more information, see .

These optional sections go at the bottom of the article:

Under this header, list any memorable quotes that are appropriate to the subject.

Often, the most relevant quotes can be placed directly into the text to illustrate the topic. 

Put here, in a bulleted list, other articles in the Wikipedia that are related to this one.

Related topics should be grouped by subject area to make them easier to find. Please also give a brief sentence to explain if it is not obvious how it is related. For example:

Or for a less formal look, you can simply use something like this in any section:

"See also": Main page, 

Put under this header, again in a bulleted list, any books, articles, web pages and such that you used to write the article or that you wish to recommend as sources of further information to readers.


The most important thing is to put all of the citation information, just as you would for any other bibliography.

Put here, in list form, any websites that you have used or recommend for readers of the article. Describe it if you can.


Some editors would rather list the other websites under "References".


</doc>
<doc id="13822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13822" title="Bruce Springsteen">
Bruce Springsteen

Bruce Frederick Joseph Springsteen (born September 23, 1949) is an American rock musician from New Jersey. His songs include "Born to Run" and "Born in the USA". For more than 30 years he has been a singer along with his "E-Street Band." Also, he is now a member in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Jon Landau, a music writer for "Rolling Stone" magazine, once said: "I have seen the future of rock and roll, and its name is Bruce Springsteen." Springsteen won an Oscar for his song "Streets Of Philadelphia", written for the Tom Hanks' film "Philadelphia".
Springsteen was born in Long Branch, New Jersey, and spent his childhood and high school years in Freehold Borough. His father, Douglas Frederick Springsteen, was a bus driver.His mother, Adele Ann (née Zirilli), was a legal secretary. He has two younger sisters, Virginia and Pamela. Pamela was an actor but left this profession and became a photographer. She took photos for the Human Touch and Lucky Town albums.

Springsteen attended the St. Rose of Lima Catholic school in Freehold Borough.Old teachers have said he was a "loner, who wanted nothing more than to play his guitar." He completed high school, but felt so uncomfortable that he skipped his own graduation ceremony. He briefly went to Ocean County College but had no degree.
Till the early 1970s he played with different bands in the Atlantic area. In 1972 he signed a record contract with Columbia Records. His first album "Greetings from Asbury Park, N.J." , released in January 1973, was commercely not a success but was highly favoured by music critics. Also his second album "The Wild, the Innocent & the E Street Shuffle" was more acclaimed than sold.

In the May 22, 1974, issue of Boston's The Real Paper, music critic Jon Landau wrote after seeing a performance at the Harvard Square Theater, "I saw rock and roll future, and its name is Bruce Springsteen. And on a night when I needed to feel young, he made me feel like I was hearing music for the very first time." Landau became Springsteens manager and producer.
The commercial breakthrough was his third album "Born to run", which was realesed on August 25, 1975. Due to this Springsteen was on the covers of Time magazine and Newsweek. After a legal battle with his old manager Mike Appel he could realese his third album "Darkness on the Edge of Town" not earlier than 1978. In 1978 he worked together with Patti Smith, who had a hit with Springsteens song "Because the Night". Also Manfred Mann (Blinded by the light) and the Pointer Sisters (Fire) had success with songs of Bruce Springsteen. The next album was "The River". The single from this album "Hungry Heart" was his first Top 10 hit. "The River" brought Bruce Springsteen in a wide range of styles from ballads (f.e. The River) to rock songs.

His next album was "Nebraska" (1982) which he recorded in a studio at his home. The only instruments in this records were guitar and harmonica. The songs are about outsiders of the US-society. Despite its commercial flop it is regarded by critics as one of Springsteens best albums.

He is probably best known for his next album "Born in the USA" which sold 15 million copies in the USA. It contains 7 single hits which all reach the Top 10. The following tour was also a huge success. The title track of the album was widly misunderstood as patriotic hymn. In fact it was a comment on the treatment of Vietnam veterans. In later years Springsteen performed the song only with acoustic guitar to make the meaning of the song more clearly. An acoustic version also appeared on "Tracks", a later album. Videos for the album were made by famous film directors Brian De Palma and John Sayles.

The next album was "Live/1975–85", which sums up the powerful live performances of Bruce Springsteen. It was a five records box set and was the first set which reached #1 in the charts.

After Born in the USA Springsteen recorded again more sedate and contemplative albums like "Tunnel of Love" (1987). In late 1989 he dissolved the E-Street Band and married Patti Scialfa. The couple relocated to California. In 1992 he released two albums at once, "Human Touch" and "Lucky Town". After he had received man Grammy Awards he also was winner of the Academy Award in 1994 for his song "Streets of Philadelphia", which appeared on the soundtrack to the film Philadelphia.

In 1995 he released his second solo guitar album, The Ghost of Tom Joad, inspired by John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath .Following the album he made a solo acoustic where he played the new songs but also many of his older songs in acoustic form.After the tour he and his family went back to New Jersey.

In 1999 the E Street Band and Springsteen offically played together again. They made a Reunion tour which lasted over one year. The last two concerts of the tour were recorded for an HBO Concert also a DVD and album was released under the title "Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band: Live in New York City".The same year Springsteen was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
About the 1990s Springsteen said: "I didn't do a lot of work. Some people would say I didn't do my best work."

2002 the artist realesed "The Rising" the first studio album with the E Street Band for 19 years. The 2005 album Devils & Dust was again mostly acoustic and recorded without the band. In November 2005, Sirius Satellite Radio started a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week radio station on Channel 10 called E Street Radio. This channel brings commercial-free Bruce Springsteen music, including rare tracks, interviews, and daily concerts of Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band recorded throughout their career.In April 2006, Springsteen released "We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions", an project with folk songs which were made popular by Pete Seeger. It was recorded with a large ensemble of musicians including only Patti Scialfa, Soozie Tyrell, and The Miami Horns from past efforts. The end of the decade brought three albums. (Magic (#1), Working on a Dream (#1) and The Promise (#16), which featured again outtakes of different songs). On January 11, 2009, Springsteen won the Golden Globe Award for Best Song for "The Wrestler", from the Mickey Rourke film by the same name.

In September 1979, Springsteen and the E Street Band joined the Musicians United for Safe Energy (MUSE) anti-nuclear power collective at Madison Square Garden for two nights, playing an short set and two songs from his next album. 1988 Springsteen headlined the worldwide Human Rights Now! tour for Amnesty International. 2008 he supported Barack Obama's presidential campaign
and he was the musical opener for the Obama Inaugural Celebration on January 18, 2009 . He performed "The Rising" with an female choir. Later he performed Woody Guthrie's "This Land Is Your Land" with Pete Seeger.

Springsteen's lyrics often explore highly personal themes such as and unhappiness with life in every day situations.

He did most of his records with the E Street Band. The band was formed in October 1972. Although Springsteen played with other bands the E Street Band was his band for 40 years. The band took the name from a street in Belmar, New Jersey where the mother of a founding member lived. The band members do also solo works and play as session musicians. (for example:Bittan and Van Zandt for Bob Dylan on Empire Burlesque). Clemons and Lofgren also went on tour with Ringo Starr and his All-Starr Band in 1989.
Although Springsteen informed the band in 1989 that he would not play with them they stayed friends and from 1999 onwards they again played and recorded together. 

Major studio albums (along with their chart positions in the U.S. Billboard 200 at the time of release):

Live albums
Singles



</doc>
<doc id="13824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13824" title="Wikipedia:Verifiability">
Wikipedia:Verifiability

Wikipedia should only publish material that is verifiable and is . 
The goal of Wikipedia is to become a complete and reliable encyclopedia. Verifiability is the key to becoming a reliable resource, so editors should so that their edits can be easily verified.
Wikipedia:Verifiability is one of three of Wikipedia's content-guiding policy pages. The other two are and . Together, these three policies determine the type and quality of material that is acceptable in the main namespace.
Fact checking is time consuming and not particularly rewarding. It is unfair to make later editors dig for sources to check the time of your work, particularly when the initial content is questionable. Those who write articles likely to be deemed in need of fact checking, for whatever reason, should expect to assist by providing references, ideally when the article is first written. Because of this, it's important to make it easy to verify the accuracy and neutrality of your content. is an important part of this, but not the only factor. Another good rule of thumb is to be specific (and ). For example:

This is difficult to verify, because it's hard to know where to start. Many spokespeople may have commented about the incident on many dates and on many occasions, and it's unreasonable to expect someone to check all these statements looking for the one that matches. A better phrasing would be:

This is easy to verify: one could contact Eliza Twisk, or Channel 4, or Amnesty International. As the exact quote is given, rather than a paraphrase, this can be fed into various search engines. Finally, a URL of a transcript is given.

There are degrees of verifiability. At the one end, there are facts that can be verified fairly quickly by most editors, requiring only resources available over the internet, or at the local library. At the other end of the scale are facts that can only be verified by subject matter experts.

In general, consider the sorts of people who are likely to edit the article in question: the article should be verifiable by these people. Therefore, an article on a sociology topic might include content that can only be verified by a sociologist — perhaps referencing some standard sociology text. However, it should probably not include content that can only be verified by a physicist, because physicists are not likely to be spending their time reading and editing our sociology articles.

If you are writing on a well-studied field, then it's possible that most of the editors will be reasonably acquainted with the topic, and you can be a bit more relaxed about verifiability. However, if you are writing about a more obscure topic, then you may find that many of the editors have never previously heard of the thing you are writing about, and you should take this into account.

There are several reasons you might want to verify something in an article:


Here's a suggested procedure for verifying content:


Once you've successfully verified something, consider whether you can edit either the article, or the talk page, to make it easier for the next person.

For an encyclopedia, sources should be unimpeachable. An encyclopedia is not primary source material. Its authors do not conduct interviews nor perform original research. Hence, anything we include should have been covered in the records, reportage, research, or studies of others. In many, if not most, cases there should be several corroborating sources available should someone wish to consult them. Sources should be unimpeachable relative to the claims made; outlandish claims beg strong sources.

Sometimes a particular statement can only be verified at a place of dubious reliability, such as a weblog ("blog") or a tabloid newspaper. If the statement is relatively unimportant, then just remove it - don't waste words on statements of limited interest and dubious truth. However, if you must keep it, then attribute it to the source in question. For example:

Remember that it is easy for anybody to create a web site and claim to be an expert in a certain field, or to start an "expert group," "human rights group", church, or other type of association. Several million people have created their own blogs in the last few years. Thus, one must assess whether the source is reliable.

In the case of a source of facts: is the source a noted expert in the area? Does the source write blatant errors? Has the source followed journalistic or academic standards of ethical investigation? In the case of a source of opinion: is the source notable? Does it stand for a large group of people?

See the discussion of .

Verifiability is one problem with articles on obscure subjects. If an article covers a subject which has never been written about in published sources, or which has only been written about in sources of doubtful credibility, it is difficult to verify the information. To do so would require original research, and it has been agreed that a place to publish . Insistence on verifiability is often sufficient to exclude such articles. 
However, just because some information is verifiable, doesn't mean that Wikipedia is the right place to publish it. See . 

See and for some suggested criteria for inclusion of biographical articles.


</doc>
<doc id="13825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13825" title="Intersexuality">
Intersexuality

Intersex is a condition which occurs (though rarely) in species which use sexual reproduction. It refers to those individuals which have sexual characteristics midway between normal males and normal females.

A person’s genitalia may be malformed. They may also have male and/or female secondary sex characteristics (such as body shape). Such a person may be called intersexual.
About 1 in 100 babies are born with an intersex condition, and 1 in 1000 babies have an intersex condition that needs surgery. It can be difficult to determine if an intersex baby is genetically male or female (with XY chromosomes or XX chromosomes). Sometimes, the condition may appear when the baby reaches puberty or becomes an adult. 

Intersexual are not hermaphrodites. That term is only used for animals which have both natural male and female organs. 

Most causes of intersexuality are congenital. That means people are born with it, usually because of agenetic condition. All development is governed by genes which regulate the process of growth.

The most common condition that causes intersexuality is Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia. This is a condition that causes genetically female fetuses to have a male body appearance, such as having a penis instead of a clitoris, and a scrotum instead of labia. This is because the babies' adrenal gland produces higher levels of androgen hormones (hormones that act like testosterone). This may cause the baby to appear male when it has female chromosomes, even to doctors and parents.

Surgery is usually used on intersexed babies to give function to the genitals or a more usual appearance. The surgery usually makes the baby look female, as this is less complicated. When they become adults, some people agree with this surgery as made their life easier when they were a child. 



</doc>
<doc id="13829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13829" title="Category:NPOV disputes">
Category:NPOV disputes


</doc>
<doc id="13831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13831" title="Template:Gastrointestinal system">
Template:Gastrointestinal system


</doc>
<doc id="13832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13832" title="Human gastrointestinal tract">
Human gastrointestinal tract

The gastrointestinal system is the body system that eats and digests food; it is also called a digestive system. By breaking down food into simple chemicals that can be absorbed by other parts of the body so the chemicals can be used for energy and building the body, it also gets rid of waste after digestion. The gastrointestinal system starts at the lips and ends at the anus. Animals like worms, insects, mammals, birds, fish, and people all have digestive systems.

The gastrointestinal tract is the "gut" and other organs that help us digest food.
The gut is the round tubes that food goes through and is digested.
The parts of the human, and some other animals, gut system are:

Other organs that are part of the gastrointestinal system but are "not" part of the gut are:
Food does not go through these organs. But they help the gut digest the food. They also have other work. For example the pancreas, thyroid, liver, and parathyroids are also endocrine glands that make hormones like insulin.

There are many diseases that affect the gastrointestinal system. Doctors who study the gastrointestinal tract are called gastroenterologists. 


</doc>
<doc id="13833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13833" title="Mouth">
Mouth

The mouth is the hole in the face where we put food when we eat. It is the first part of the gastrointestinal system.

The mouth has teeth to help chew the food. We use our mouth for many things. We eat with it. But we also talk, kiss, and show our emotions with it.

<br clear="all">


</doc>
<doc id="13834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13834" title="Category:10th century">
Category:10th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 10th century, which began in the year 901 and ended in the year 1000.

Note that the year 1000 is included in in the 11th century but is actually part of the 10th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13835" title="Category:10th century births">
Category:10th century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 10th century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13836" title="Category:972">
Category:972


</doc>
<doc id="13838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13838" title="Category:915">
Category:915


</doc>
<doc id="13839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13839" title="Category:970s births">
Category:970s births


</doc>
<doc id="13840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13840" title="Category:930s births">
Category:930s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 930s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13841" title="Category:910s births">
Category:910s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 910s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13842" title="Category:970s">
Category:970s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 970s which begins in the year 970 and ends in the year 979.


</doc>
<doc id="13843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13843" title="Category:930s">
Category:930s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 930s which begins in the year 930 and ends in the year 939.


</doc>
<doc id="13844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13844" title="Category:910s">
Category:910s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 910s which begins in the year 910 and ends in the year 919.


</doc>
<doc id="13845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13845" title="Category:10th century deaths">
Category:10th century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 10th century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13846" title="Category:963">
Category:963


</doc>
<doc id="13847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13847" title="Category:996">
Category:996


</doc>
<doc id="13848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13848" title="Category:990s deaths">
Category:990s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 990s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13849" title="Category:960s deaths">
Category:960s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13850" title="Category:990s">
Category:990s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 990s which begins in the year 990 and ends in the year 999.


</doc>
<doc id="13851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13851" title="Category:960s">
Category:960s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 960s which begins in the year 960 and ends in the year 969.


</doc>
<doc id="13852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13852" title="Deacon">
Deacon

A Deacon is a role in the Christian church. The job of a deacon is different depending on the church he or she is a part of. A deacon usually helps to run the church and teaches people about Christianity. A deacon can also witness marriages.

In the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic churches men are not allowed to marry after they have become deacons. Deacons in Protestant churches are allowed to marry.


</doc>
<doc id="13853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13853" title="Category:959">
Category:959


</doc>
<doc id="13854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13854" title="Category:950s">
Category:950s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 950s which begins in the year 950 and ends in the year 959.


</doc>
<doc id="13855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13855" title="Category:Politicians">
Category:Politicians

Politicians are people who hold public office. They may make laws. They may enforce laws. In some countries, they are elected by the people to lead.


</doc>
<doc id="13856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13856" title="Category:Indiana">
Category:Indiana


</doc>
<doc id="13858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13858" title="Category:1990 deaths">
Category:1990 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13859" title="Friedrich Engels">
Friedrich Engels

Friedrich Engels (28 November 1820–5 August 1895) was a German political thinker. With his friend Karl Marx, Engels wrote about Communism. They wrote the famous book "The Communist Manifesto" together.

Friedrich Engels was born in Germany in 1820. His father was a very rich factory owner, and sent Friedrich to England to run one of the factories. The way the workers were living at his father's factories made Engels upset with the class system. At about this time, he began to write about politics and workers' struggles.

In 1854 he met Karl Marx in France and the two became friends and began to write together. The two men worked together until Marx's death in 1883.

After Marx died, Engels spent the rest of his life editing and translating Marx' writings. He also wrote about women and marriage.


</doc>
<doc id="13860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13860" title="Category:1960 deaths">
Category:1960 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13862" title="Category:1895 deaths">
Category:1895 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13863" title="Dinner">
Dinner

Dinner is a word with a few different meanings.

In North America dinner usually means large meal that is eaten in early evening. Sometimes dinner can mean a meal eaten in the middle of the day. This meaning is more common in the Southern United States and the United Kingdom . 
A more formal definition of "dinner", especially outside North America, is any meal that has several courses. The minimum number of course is often regarded as two but there can be as many as seven. If there is only one course and it is the main meal of the day, then it is called dinner.

Dinner is very important to some cultures.


</doc>
<doc id="13864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13864" title="Category:Judaism">
Category:Judaism


</doc>
<doc id="13865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13865" title="Rosa Luxemburg">
Rosa Luxemburg

Rosa Luxemburg (March 5, 1870 or 1871 - January 15, 1919) was a Polish-born German Marxist. Her birth name was Rosalia "Luxenburg". She was born into a Jewish family. She was the fifth child of her parents. Her father was a wood trader/timber trader. His name was Eliasz Luxemburg III. Her mother's name was Line (maiden name: Löwenstein). She organised a socialist uprising in Germany but was killed by a right-wing group called the Freikorps. Rosa Luxemburg made many new communist ideas that continue to influence communism today. Rosa Luxemburg supported the Russian Revolution led by Lenin and Trotsky, but she saw them both as making undemocratic mistakes in organizing what was supposed to be a more democratic nation.


</doc>
<doc id="13867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13867" title="Category:1517 births">
Category:1517 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1517.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13868" title="Category:1517">
Category:1517


</doc>
<doc id="13870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13870" title="Category:1832 births">
Category:1832 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1832.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13871" title="Category:1520 deaths">
Category:1520 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13873" title="Category:1402 births">
Category:1402 births


</doc>
<doc id="13874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13874" title="Category:1402">
Category:1402


</doc>
<doc id="13875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13875" title="Category:1472 deaths">
Category:1472 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13876" title="Category:1472">
Category:1472


</doc>
<doc id="13877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13877" title="Category:1470s deaths">
Category:1470s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1470s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13878" title="Category:1400s births">
Category:1400s births

This category consists of people who were born in the decade of the 1400s, starting from the year 1400 to the year 1409.

Note that the year 1400 is actually the last year in the 14th century; 1401 is the first year in the 15th century.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13879" title="Category:1400s">
Category:1400s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1400s which begins in the year 1400 and ends in the year 1409.

Note that 1400 is actually the last year of the 14th century; 1401 is the actual first year of the 15th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13880" title="Category:1533 deaths">
Category:1533 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13882" title="Category:1496">
Category:1496


</doc>
<doc id="13883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13883" title="Category:1558 deaths">
Category:1558 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="13884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13884" title="Category:1558">
Category:1558


</doc>
<doc id="13885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13885" title="Category:1516 births">
Category:1516 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1516.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13886" title="Category:1516">
Category:1516


</doc>
<doc id="13888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13888" title="Liver">
Liver

The liver is an organ in the abdomen. It is part of the gastrointestinal system. Sometimes people use "hepato-" as a prefix when they talk about the liver. For example if people talk about liver cells, they say "hepato"cellular. Another word for liver cell is "hepato"cyte (-cyte means cell.)

The liver does many important things in the body:

There are many different liver diseases. Liver disease can make someone very "very" sick because of all the important work the liver does. People who have bad liver disease usually die unless they can get a "Liver transplant". This is where the liver from someone who has just died is put in another person. This is very difficult surgery. But surgeons do it because it can save a person's life.

The symptoms of liver disease happen because the liver does not do the work it should. 

The liver cannot metabolize (break down) toxins and waste so these bad things stay in the blood longer than they otherwise would. One thing that builds up is a substance called bilirubin. When red blood cells die, the hemoglobin in them leaks into the blood. The hemoglobin becomes bilirubin (a yellow substance that makes bile yellow.) The liver takes the bilirubin out of the blood and puts it into the bile. The bile goes into the intestines and then goes out with the waste from your body. If the liver is hurt, it does not remove the bilirubin, so the bilirubin stays in the body. This makes the person's body look yellow and is known as jaundice. So yellow eyes and yellow skin are symptoms of liver disease.

Other symptoms of liver disease are:

"Hepatitis" is when liver cells get "inflamed" (sick.) This can be from virus infections. This can be from toxins or poisons. (The most common toxin to cause hepatitis is "alcohol".) This can be from genetic disease. This can be from autoimmune diseases when the body's immune system hurts itself.

"Cirrhosis" is from death of liver cells that happens again and again. When the cells die, scar tissue forms. This scar tissue damages the structure of the liver. This makes the liver not work as well. But it also makes the pressure in the veins that go to the liver very high. This high pressure makes "esophageal varices". The most common reason for cirrhosis in the world is hepatitis B virus infection.

Some diseases cause bad things to build up in the liver. Hemochromatosis causes extra iron to build up in the liver. Wilson's disease causes extra copper to build up in the liver. Both of these diseases hurt the cells and can cause "very" bad liver disease that kills people.

You can also get cancer of your liver. This can be metastatic cancer that came from some other place in your body. The liver is a common place to get metastases because it takes bad things out of the blood. So it takes cancer cells out of the blood and they grow in the liver. Cancer can also grow from the liver. If it grows from the liver it is called "hepatocellular carcinoma" (liver cell cancer) if it is from liver cells. Most hepatocellular carcinoma is from cirrhosis. If it is from the cells that line the bile ducts in the liver, it is called "cholangiocarcinoma".

Some liver diseases can be treated easily with medicine. Hemochromatosis is treated just by taking blood from people every 2 months.

Some liver diseases can be stopped before they start. Two types of viral hepatitis can be stopped with an immunization. Hepatitis A and B viruses can be stopped with a total of 5 shots in a person's life. 

Some liver diseases can only be treated with liver transplant.



</doc>
<doc id="13889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13889" title="Clot">
Clot

A clot is a semi-solid substance that blood forms, especially when it is in air. When you bleed, your body makes the blood turn into a clot at the injury.

When blood makes a clot, it is also called "coagulation".

If a person gets a cut on their body, that person may bleed. To stop the bleeding, the human body does several things. First, the brain orders the liver to produce chemicals that will help the clot to form. When the chemicals released by the liver arrive at the injury, the coagulation begins. In the mean time, the brain also lessens the blood flow near the injury (by tightening the veins and arteries in that area), so that not as much blood is lost. 

There is a limit to how quickly a clot can form. If the cut is very deep and the person bleeds too much, a clot may not be able to form and a lot of blood may be lost.


</doc>
<doc id="13890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13890" title="Neck">
Neck

Neck can mean:





</doc>
<doc id="13891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13891" title="Category:9th century">
Category:9th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 9th century, which began in the year 801 and ended in the year 900.

Note that the year 900 is included in in the 10th century but is actually part of the 9th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13892" title="Category:9th century deaths">
Category:9th century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 9th century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13895" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13895" title="Category:840s">
Category:840s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 840s which begins in the year 840 and ends in the year 849.


</doc>
<doc id="13896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13896" title="Category:8th century">
Category:8th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 8th century, which began in the year 701 and ended in the year 800.

Note that the year 800 is included in in the 9th century but is actually part of the 8th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13897" title="Category:8th century births">
Category:8th century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 8th century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13898" title="Category:780s births">
Category:780s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 780s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13900" title="Category:780s">
Category:780s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 780s which begins in the year 780 and ends in the year 789.


</doc>
<doc id="13901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13901" title="Category:7th century">
Category:7th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 7th century, which began in the year 601 and ended in the year 700.

Note that the year 700 is included in in the 8th century but is actually part of the 7th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13902" title="Category:7th century deaths">
Category:7th century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 7th century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13903" title="Category:632">
Category:632


</doc>
<doc id="13904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13904" title="Category:630s deaths">
Category:630s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 630s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="13905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13905" title="Category:630s">
Category:630s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 630s which begins in the year 630 and ends in the year 639.


</doc>
<doc id="13907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13907" title="Coachella Valley">
Coachella Valley

The Coachella Valley is a desert valley in the Colorado Desert of Southern California. It is famous as a resort destination and an agricultural region.

The cities of the Coachella Valley from west to east are:










Many people visit the area and enjoy the pleasant weather during tourist season, which is from September to June. Winter in the Coachella Valley is very pleasant, much like spring in other parts of the country. Summer is very hot and dry, with temperatures over 100 degrees Fahrenheit/40 degrees Centigrade. Although the area is a desert, there are lots of water both under the ground and in aqueducts from the Colorado River. The weather is so similar to weather in the Middle East that the area grows more than 95% of the nation's crop of dates. A grapefruit called the "Coachella Grapefruit" was first grown there.

One of the world's greatest engineering feats is in Palm Springs. The Palm Springs Aerial Tramway brings visitors from the floor of the valley to the top of Mount San Jacinto, 8516 feet (3000 metres) up!


</doc>
<doc id="13908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13908" title="Derivative works">
Derivative works

Derivative work is a phrase used in copyright law. It is piece of work ( for example: a novel, a song or a painting) that is based on what someone else created.

Copyright law says that if someone writes a book, or draws a picture, or writes a song, then it belongs to them. Other people are not allowed to copy it unless the person who created it says that they can. This is important because it means The person who created the work can sell what they created and get money. 

A derivative work is one that is based on something else. If a person watchs a movie, and then writes a story about the people in the movie, that story is a derivative work. If after hearing a song, someone sings the same tune with different words, the song they sung is a derivative work. 

In the law, if someone else has a copyright on something, no one is allowed to create a derivative work unless they say it is allowed. So if someone watchs a movie, they are not allowed to write a story about the people in the movie unless the people who made the movie give them permission. 

This only applies to the things that are known about by the person creating the work. If a movie is made, but they do not go and see the movie, and then they write a book that has the same story as the movie, that is not a derivative work.


</doc>
<doc id="13909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13909" title="Rugby football">
Rugby football

Rugby football is a sport that people play around the world. Many people play rugby in the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, Italy, France, South Africa, Argentina, Japan, USA, Canada the Pacific Islands and some 100+ other countries. It is the World's premier oval ball football and is usually just called "rugby".

Rugby football is named after a school in England called Rugby school. Legend has it that one day in 1823, a senior boy called William Webb Ellis elected to run with the ball rather than retiring to kick it as was the normal mode of play in Rugby School football matches. "Running in" was not considered quite the done thing then but was later formalised in the laws of Rugby Football (first published in 1846). Association Football was not formalised until 1863 and even then allowed handling of the ball, but not catching it and running with it. In the mid 1860's an attempt was made to provide one set of laws for all football but there were irreconcilable differences (mainly concerning "hacking" i.e. dispossessing an opponent of the ball by kicking him in the shins). The "hackers" went on to eventually play rugby football even though hacking was barred a few years later; while the "anti-hackers" went on to form Association Football eventually banning any handling. 

Rugby football is played on a field by two teams of 15 people. The ball is slightly pointy at both ends. At each end of the field there is a field goal made out of poles, shaped like the letter H in English. There is also an area called the in-goal. Players try to take the ball to the other team's in-goal and place it on the ground. If they do that, they score a "try". They can also then try to score a "goal". To score a goal, they have to kick the ball through the top of the H on the other teams side.

To try and stop the other team scoring, players try to tackle each other. Tackling in rugby means that they try to grab the other person and stop them from moving, or make them fall on the ground.

There are two types of rugby, called rugby union and rugby league. The two types of rugby moved away from each other because they did not agree about the how players were treated when they were injured while playing a game. Rugby union is played by more people than rugby league, but many people play rugby league in the UK, Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea. In most other places, the word "rugby" means rugby union.

Every four years, there is a championship of the rugby union teams from countries all over the world. It is called the Rugby World Cup, and the next Rugby World Cup will be in 2011, in New Zealand.

There is also the Rugby League World Cup made up of member nations of the Rugby League International Federation (RLIF). The tournament has an irregular schedule. The next tournament will be in 2013 hosted by the UK.


</doc>
<doc id="13912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13912" title="Template:Urinary system">
Template:Urinary system


</doc>
<doc id="13913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13913" title="Kidney">
Kidney

Kidneys are two organs in the abdomen of vertebrates that are shaped like beans. They make urine (the yellow waste water that comes out of the urethra.) They are part of the urinary system. When medical professionals discuss the kidneys, they typically refer to the word "renal". For example, "renal failure" is when the kidneys are sick and do not work. 

The prefix "nephro-" is also used in words to mean "kidneys". For example, a "nephrologist" is a doctor who studies kidneys.

The kidney makes hormones. The two most important ones that it makes are erythropoetin and renin.

Erythropoetin is made by the kidneys if there is less oxygen in the kidney. Erythropoetin tells the bone marrow to make more red blood cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen in the blood. So this means there will be more oxygen carried in the blood.

Renin is made by the kidney if there is low blood pressure, low volume of blood, or too low salts in the blood. Renin tells the blood vessels to be smaller. It tells the adrenal gland to make aldosterone (which tells the kidneys to save salts). It tells the body to drink more water. All of this makes the blood pressure go up.

The kidney's most important work is keeping homeostasis. Homeostasis means that the body keeps a stable environment inside itself. The body wants to have the consistent and proper amount of water, salt, and acid in the blood. This makes the body work better. The kidney keeps these things constant.

If there is too much water, the kidney puts more water in the urine. If there is not enough water, the kidney puts less water in the urine. This is why people make less urine when they are dehydrated (have not enough water in the body and are thirsty).

There are many types of kidney diseases. If kidney disease makes the kidneys not able to do but they do work in part. People can have mild renal failure and have no symptoms. As long as it does not become worse, people may not even know they have it. "Severe" renal failure means "very" bad failure. The kidneys do not work very much at all. People with severe renal failure "always" have symptoms. They may need special care from doctors 

The main kinds of kidney diseases are:

People who do not have good kidneys are "very" sick. If they have severe renal failure, they cannot live unless they have a "replacement" for their kidneys. Replacement is something that takes the place of something else.

There are two ways to replace the kidneys: dialysis and transplantation

Dialysis is when doctors use a machine and medicines to do the work that kidneys do. There are two kinds of dialysis: hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis.

Peritoneal dialysis is when doctors put a plastic tube into the persons abdomen. Every day the person fills the abdomen with fluid. The extra salts, waste, and water that the body does not need goes into the fluid. Then the fluid comes out and takes the wastes with it. This does part of the job that kidneys do.

Hemodialysis is when doctors take blood from a person, clean the blood with a special kind of filter, called "haemodialyser", managed through a special machine, and put it back in the person. When the blood is cleaned, water, salts, and wastes are taken out of it. This must be done 2-4 times every week (usually 3 times.) It takes 2-4 hours to do this each time.

Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not perfect. They do some of the work of the kidney, but it is not as good as a real kidney. So people who need dialysis are not as healthy. They must take medicines also. For example, in kidney failure, the kidneys do not make erythropoetin. So doctors have to give people erythropoetin so they make enough red blood cells.

A better way to do the kidneys' work is to give the person another kidney. This is called a renal transplant. Kidney transplants are the most common organ transplant that happens. It is more common because we have two kidneys, but only need one kidney to live. People who are alive can donate a kidney to another person. With other organs, the donor must be dead first.

Even transplants are not the same as kidneys people were born with. A person who gets a renal transplants must take strong medicines to stop their body from attacking the new kidney. Sometimes, after years, the transplanted kidney stops working. But sometimes a patient can get a new transplanted kidney after the first one stops working.

It was widely believed in Europe that the conscience was actually located in the kidneys. This idea was taken from the Hebrew Bible. In modern times, medical scientists have shown kidneys do not have this kind of psychological role. 


</doc>
<doc id="13915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13915" title="Prefix">
Prefix

A prefix is a part of a word or a word, within a word. It is put at the start of another word to make a different meaning. It can also mean a number that is put in at the start to show which number something is in a group. It is a type of affix.

Strictly speaking these constructions do not use prefixes, but make compound nouns (in other cases also compound adjectives).
The following examples illustrate real prefixes.

Often people want to use a prefix to mean "not". There are many prefixes that mean "not".

Other examples of prefixes:

Scientists and doctors use prefixes in many words.
Sometimes people make up words by adding a prefix. These words are not in a dictionary. But if people use these words enough, sometimes they go into dictionaries.
For example, we can make the word "unsimple", which splits up into "not simple". This is not a word in a dictionary.

Compare to suffix. Suffixes are letters put at the end of a word to change its meaning.


</doc>
<doc id="13920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13920" title="United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization">
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization

The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, usually just called UNESCO, is the United Nations agency that looks after

One of the things UNESCO does is to make a list of all the most important, special, interesting or beautiful places in the world. This list is called "UNESCO World Heritage Sites". These places and buildings musn't be destroyed, because they are important and that beautiful that the people in the future can enjoy this places. These places are telling us a lot about the past. The Uluru for example tells us a lot about the culture of Aborigines. Most countries have at least one place on this list, but some have many. They include historical buildings or sites, beautiful landscapes, places that have scientific value (for instance in geology), or places that are very important to one culture (such as Uluru).


</doc>
<doc id="13925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13925" title="Human rights">
Human rights

Human rights is the idea that people should have rights. These rights are seen as "universal," which means they are meant for everyone, no matter what their race, religion, ethnicity, nationality, age, sex (also women's rights), political beliefs (or any other kind of beliefs), intelligence, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity are.

The idea of human rights comes from ideas found in religion and philosophy in Western Europe. The modern Western idea of human rights started in the European Enlightenment. In the 16th century, some people started suggesting that everyone had the religious and political right to choose their religion and their leaders. This sort of thinking was important in the English Civil War. After the war, the philosopher John Locke argued that people should have these rights; he was one of the first people to call them "human rights." These ideas were also important in the American revolution and the French revolution in the 18th century.

In the 19th century, John Stuart Mill was an important philosopher who thought about human rights. He said that people should be able to control their own bodies and minds. He talked about three special ideas:

Hegel was a philosopher who talked about the idea of free will. He also talked about what makes a person free: that a person has to have certain relations with other people to have true freedom. A person has to be able to:

Because people believe that human rights are important, countries make laws to protect them. These laws say that governments cannot take away people's basic rights. They make sure people who take away other people's rights are punished.

Some major political organizations have made statements that promote human rights. These are not laws, but they affect us anyway. If groups or countries do not follow these statements, others will condemn them (say that they are "very" bad); and then people may not talk with them, do business with them, or help them.

Some of the important places that human rights laws are written is in constitutions. The United States' and France's constitutions are two of the oldest set of laws based on human rights.

In 1948 the United Nations made the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is a widely respected document that says what the United Nations believes are human rights. It is not a law, but is the basis on which two important agreements are written:
These are United Nations human rights "Covenants": agreements between people or countries. The countries who sign these two covenants agree to follow them.

In addition to those Declaration and Covenants, there are many treaties and documents made by United Nations and other international organizations. Those treaties and documents are called "International human rights law".

Not everyone agrees on what the basic human rights are. Here is a list of some of the most recognized ones:


Abuse means to intentionally harm a person or people physically, mentally, emotionally, or verbally once or many times. Human rights abuse follows along similarly, also keeping in count the universal rights. Human rights abuse happens when a person is hurt in a way that violates (goes against) his/her human rights. Human rights abuses are also often called "human rights violations".

Examples of human rights abuses or violations are:

And many more.

Many people, groups, and countries think protecting human rights is very important. But not everyone in the world believes in human rights. If people who do not believe in human rights have political power they can hurt many people. Even if these people have no political power, they can be violent to other people. There are many people who work to protect everyone's human rights; some of these are government groups, and some are not with any government. They are sometimes called "Human Rights Organizations".


Some well-known human rights groups are:


</doc>
<doc id="13926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13926" title="Nationality">
Nationality

Nationality means of what nation (country) a person is a citizen.

It is considered good by world governments to have citizens of different countries living together, since this encourages multi-culturalism. This is a good thing because it can help avoid racism and intolerance.


</doc>
<doc id="13927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13927" title="Citizen">
Citizen

Citizen - a member of a group membership of Sovereign People that have Equal Rights, Liberty, Freedom, who consent to form and maintain a Government that protects these rights. The Government serves to admit & exile people from this citizenship/Vessel, in order to hold/protect these Rules/Rights.

Natural Born Citizen
People born in a Government Border, who's parent also belong to, can become a Natural born Citizen. 

Naturalized Citizen -
People can also be "naturalized" citizens, if one was born/belongs in one Government but switches to a citizen of another Government, they are a naturalized citizen of the current Government, and lose prior membership with the other Government.

Dual Citizen
People who consent to belong to more than one Government, with approval of both Government.
People who consent to one Government but move and reside to another Government, with approval of both Governments.
People who's parents Belong to a different Government than the Child's Natural Born Location, with approval of both Governments.

See Black's Law Dictionary for a legal language.

Actor Peter Lorre was born 1904 in Hungary. In the 1940s, he moved to the United States and became a citizen of the United States. Lorre was born a Hungarian citizen and later became a naturalized United States citizen.

Someone who lives in a smaller area like a city can also be called a citizen of that city.


</doc>
<doc id="13933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13933" title="Race">
Race

Race has many meanings in English. It can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="13936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13936" title="Religious fundamentalism">
Religious fundamentalism

The term religious fundamentalism was used at first to describe some people in the Protestant community in the United States in the early 20th century. These people had a set of well defined ("fundamental") values. These values were in opposition to more modern ideas. The group also said it was important to stick to what faith (the Bible) told them.
Today, the term is used more generally. 

Religious fundamentalism is a new development in society. People who study religious fundamentalism see it as a response to modern society. Today society is not as simple as it was. Today many people live in societies that can be hard to understand. Changes in familiar things can make people feel unsafe. So some people look in their religion to see something that does not change. They also want rules about how to act that do not change. So they see their religion as this thing that does not change.

When people look at religion this way they see the ideas in the religion as "absolute". This means that it is not possible for them to change. When religion is seen as absolute it becomes fundamentalism. 

People can be any religion and be fundamentalists.

Some people who are called religious fundamentalists do not like that name. They do not like it because 'religious fundamentalist' has some negative ideas about it. Many people who are politically "progressive" or "liberal" sometimes do not like religious fundamentalists. They believe bad things about them like that they are not clever, they are not educated, or that they do not respect people's human rights. Some people who are called religious fundamentalists do not like that the term has these other meanings. So they do not want to be called religious fundamentalists.

Some people who are Christian fundamentalists "do" like that term and use it to name themselves. But they do not like being called religious fundamentalists because Islamic fundamentalists are in this same group.

Not all religious fundamentalists believe the same things. But there are many issues that they have strong beliefs about. Some of these issues are similar even in different religions. Some of these issues are:


</doc>
<doc id="13938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13938" title="Medical ethics">
Medical ethics

Medical ethics is the set of ethical rules that doctors follow. These ideas tell doctors how they should treat patients.

The earliest set of ethical ideas in medicine was the "Hippocratic oath". (An oath is a special promise.) It was supposed to be written by Hippocrates but probably was not written by him.

There are 6 major principles (important ideas):

Here are some kinds of medical ethics questions:



</doc>
<doc id="13939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13939" title="Sperm">
Sperm

Sperm are the male reproductive cells. Most animals and plants use sperm to reproduce. They have different ways of making and releasing the sperm. In all cases the sperm meet with the egg of a female and grow into a new organism.

The name sperm is taken from the Greek word "sperma" meaning "seed".

An animal sperm cell is capable of movement, as it has to get to the uterus to meet with the ovum. Animal sperm cells (including humans) have small 'head' and a long tail called a "flagellum". The flagellum acts like a motor to propel the sperm cell through the female reproductive system. 

A plant sperm cell is "non motive", it can not move by itself. Plant sperm cells are contained within the pollen of a plant. They reach other plants through the wind, or insects such as bees. 

Human sperm is made in the testicles of a man. Human sperm contains 23 chromosomes. A human needs 46 chromosomes, so a sperm cell is called a "haploid" as it only has half. The other half is contained within the ovum or egg of a female. During sex, semen is shot out of the man's penis during ejaculation.
Semen carries the sperm into the womans vagina and down to the ovum in the uterus. During ejaculation millions of sperm cells are released, but only one hundred or so reach the egg.
The egg can merge with one sperm cell that reaches it. Because it now has 46 chromosomes, it is called a "diploid", like ordinary cells of the body. This diploid is called a zygote, and it can grow into a fetus and eventually a baby.

Plant sperm cells cannot move by themselves. Plant sperm cells are contained within a sticky liquid called pollen,
They rely on "transportation" to take their sperm cells to other plants. For example a bee lands on a plant to collect the pollen. Some pollen wil get stuck to the bee. The bee moves on to another plant and the pollen falls onto that plant. The pollen falls down a "pollen tube" until it reaches the ovule at the bottom.


</doc>
<doc id="13940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13940" title="Semen">
Semen

Semen () is the fluid that comes out from the end of a man's penis when he has an orgasm (the height of sexual excitement) and ejaculates. It is usually a white or yellowish, sticky substance made up of sperm (male cells for sexual reproduction) floating in a fluid called seminal plasma that has water and different chemicals in it. Normally, an ejaculation makes between 1.5 and 5 millilitres (up to one teaspoonful) of semen.

Some scientists think that semen that is taken into a woman's body causes her not to feel depressed or sad. On the other hand, if semen touches another person's body, it can pass on sexually transmitted infections (STIs). In a few cases, it can also make the other person's immune system weaker, or cause the person to have an allergic reaction. The risks of these health problems happening can be reduced if the man wears a condom when having sex.

Many cultures around the world once thought or still think that semen has special or even magical qualities. Showing semen in forms of popular culture such as art and movies has for a long time been taboo, that is, not generally accepted by society. However, since the late 20th century, artists and moviemakers have done so more often.

The English word "semen" comes from the Latin word "sēmen", which means "seed". In fact, "seed" was an old-fashioned name for semen. The Latin word "sēmen" itself came from another Latin word, "serěre", which means "to plant (a plant into the ground) or to sow (seeds in the earth)". It was once thought that semen was like a seed that grew into a baby after being "planted" inside a woman's body.

Another name for semen is "ejaculate". Some slang words for semen are "cream", "cum", "jism", "jizz", "load", "spooge", "spunk","nut" and "wad".

Semen is the fluid that comes out from the end of a man's penis when he has an orgasm (the height of sexual excitement) and ejaculates. It is usually white, but may also be slightly grey or yellow. If there is blood in the semen, it can look pink or reddish. This is a condition called hematospermia, and may be because of some blockage, inflammation, infection or injury to some part of the male sex organs, such as the urethra, epididymis, prostate or testicles. A doctor should be seen if the pink or reddish colour does not go away after a few days.

Men ejaculate different amounts of semen. Normally, an ejaculation makes between 1.5 and 5 millilitres (up to one teaspoonful) of semen. More semen usually comes out if a man has not ejaculated for many days, or if he has been stimulated (made sexually excited) for a long time. Older men make less semen. If a man ejaculates an unusually small amount of semen, this is a medical condition called hypospermia.

After a man has ejaculated, semen first becomes slightly thick and sticky, and may feel a bit like jelly and clump together in globs. Scientists think that semen does this so that if the man has had sex with a woman and has ejaculated inside her vagina, the semen stays in her vagina for longer and does not leak out. Between five and 40 minutes after this, semen becomes more liquid and watery. This probably allows the sperm in the semen to move through the vagina and into the woman's uterus and Fallopian tubes to try and fertilize an ovum (egg cell). If semen is ejaculated outside the body, after becoming watery it eventually dries up.

Semen is made up of sperm (male cells for sexual reproduction) floating in a fluid called seminal plasma. Sperm, also called spermatozoa, are made by a man's testicles and mature (grow up) in the epididymis. The fluids in seminal plasma come from different glands in the man's body: the seminal vesicles, prostate and bulbourethral glands (also called the Cowper's glands). (Glands are special organs in the body that make chemicals.) The table below shows the substances that make up semen and the glands that produce them:

Seminal plasma protects and provides food for sperm as they travel inside a woman's body. The inside of a woman'a vagina does not suit sperm cells as it is acidic. To protect the sperm from the acid, seminal plasma is alkaline. A woman's immune system also tries to kill organisms (living things) that are not part of her body. Seminal plasma has chemicals called prostaglandins in it to stop the woman's body from killing the sperm.

Semen that does not have any germs in it (see below) is not harmful if it is swallowed, for example after a person has had oral sex with a man and the man ejaculates in that person's mouth.

"Semen quality" refers to how well the sperm in a man's semen can fertilize a woman's ova. The better a man's semen quality is, the better chances he has to make a woman pregnant. A 1992 World Health Organization book said that an ejaculation of normal human semen has:

The number of sperm in an ejaculation of semen depends on many things. There may be more sperm if:


If there are an unusually low number of sperm in an ejaculation, this is called oligospermia. If there are no sperm at all, this is called azoospermia. A man with oligospermia or azoospermia is usually infertile, and cannot or finds it very hard to make a woman pregnant by having sex with her.

Studies seem to say that semen is an anti-depressant. This means that it causes women not to feel depressed or sad. The studies found that when men had sex with women without using condoms, and the men's semen was taken into the women's vaginas, the women had better moods and felt happier. Scientists do not yet know if the same thing happens when semen is swallowed after oral sex, but some of them think it may.

If a man has a sexually transmitted infection or STI (an infection that is passed from one person to another by sex), the germs that cause the disease can appear in his semen. If the person that the man has sex with touches the semen, he or she can become infected by the germs and pick up the disease. AIDS, chlamydia, gonorrhea, hepatitis B, herpes and syphillis are examples of STIs. One of the ways for a man to lower the chance of passing on an STI to his sexual partner is to wear a condom on his penis when having sex.

Some scientists think that parts of semen, such as sperm and seminal plasma, can make another person's immune system weaker. Experiments show that when substances in a man's semen enter another person's body, that person's body makes antibodies. Antibodies are large Y-shaped proteins used by the body's immune system to stop foreign objects from harming the body. However, the antibodies made in response to substances in semen attack one of the body's own cells, called T lymphocytes. This weakens the body's immune system.

In a very small number of cases, people have experienced allergic reactions when they touched semen. This is called human seminal plasma hypersensitivity. The symptoms (signs of the medical problem) can either be near the part of the body which touched the semen, or all over the body. They may include itching of the vagina, redness, swelling or blisters within 30 minutes of contact. They may also include itching and hives (large, red, itchy patches) all over the body, and even difficulty breathing.

The best way to test for human seminal plasma hypersensitivity is for a man to use a condom when having sex. When a condom is used, after ejaculation the man's semen stays inside the condom and does not touch the body of the person he is having sex with. If the man's sexual partner usually has allergic symptoms to semen but does not have any when a condom is used, this may show that his partner's body is extra-sensitive to semen. A person can often get over a mild semen allergy by coming into contact with semen often. If the allergic reaction is very bad, the person should see a doctor, especially if she is a woman trying to get pregnant. In such cases, it may be necessary for the woman to have a baby through artificial insemination. This is a medical way of fertilizing a woman's ova using a man's sperm without the man and the woman having sexual intercourse.

Many cultures around the world once thought or still think that semen has special or even magical qualities. Some examples are set out below:






Displaying semen in forms of popular culture such as art and movies has for a long time been taboo, that is, not generally accepted by society. However, since the late 20th century artists and moviemakers have done so more often.

The American photographer Andres Serrano sometimes takes photographs of body fluids and displays them as artworks. One example is "Blood and Semen II" (1990), which is a picture of blood and semen mixed together. Some people are shocked by such pictures and think it is wrong of him to make them, while others think that as an artist he should be free to create such works. Another of Serrano's pictures, "Blood and Semen III", was featured on the cover of the 1996 music album "Load" by the American heavy metal band Metallica.

The United Kingdom-based artists Gilbert Proesch and George Passmore, better known as Gilbert and George, have also used semen and other body fluids to create artworks.

Apart from pornographic movies showing people having sex, semen is usually not shown in movies as many people think that doing so is obscene (not decent). However, some movies that have shown semen are the American comedy movies "There's Something about Mary" (1998), "American Pie" (1999), "Scary Movie" (2000) and "Scary Movie 2" (2001). In the Spanish movie "Y tu mamá también" ("And Your Mother Too", 2001), there is a scene where two high-school boys who are friends lie on diving boards over a swimming pool and masturbate (make themselves sexually excited). Semen is later shown floating on the water. Such movies are usually not thought to be suitable for children to watch.


</doc>
<doc id="13943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13943" title="Category:6th century">
Category:6th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 6th century, which began in the year 501 and ended in the year 600.

Note that the year 600 is included in in the 7th century but is actually part of the 6th century.


</doc>
<doc id="13944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13944" title="Category:6th century deaths">
Category:6th century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 6th century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="13945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13945" title="Bilbao">
Bilbao

Bilbao is a city in the Basque Country, in the North of Spain. There are 350,000 people living in Bilbao. 
In Bilbao is the Nervión river, which ends in the Bay of Biscay.

Bilbao was a industrial city, but today it is a tourist city. There are many things to see in Bilbao:





</doc>
<doc id="13947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13947" title="Template:User pl">
Template:User pl


</doc>
<doc id="13950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13950" title="Middle school">
Middle school

In the United States, middle school is a school between elementary school (grades 1-4, 1-5 or 1-6) and high school (grades 9-12 or 10-12). Depending on location, middle school contains grades 6-8, 7-8, or 7-9. Middle school is also sometimes called junior high school or just "junior high".

The school day is often very different in elementary, middle, and high schools. Unlike elementary schools, where students often stay with one or two teachers for most of the school day, middle school is usually the first time in which students change teachers after each class of usually about one hour. Students often study 6 to 8 subjects. They will be taught by a different teacher for each subject. This is also the first year they must "dress out", or change clothes for P.E. (physical education)

The change from a one teacher-all subjects way of teaching helps create more independence for the pupil. They no longer have the guidance of just one main teacher. Also, students will often have more of a choice in what classes they take. This is mainly in dealing with subjects which are taken in addition the basic subjects such as mathematics, English, history and general science.

In general, middle school acts as a transition between the elementary school structure where most people are all treated the same and the high school structure were most people are treated as individuals. However, some critics see middle schools as having gone "soft," overemphasizing self-esteem building at the expense of academic rigor.


</doc>
<doc id="13951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13951" title="List of Disney animated movies">
List of Disney animated movies

Below is a list of animated movies from Walt Disney Pictures/The Walt Disney Company. For a list of live-action movies from the company, see List of Disney movies.

The following is a list of the forty-nine movies which are said to be the Walt Disney Feature Animation (WDFA) . They are also known as the Walt Disney Animated Classics. The canon includes animated movies that were or are being produced entirely by WDFA. Movies which are not part of the canon are movies which include both animation and live-action, spin-offs from Disney television programs, the direct-to-video movies produced by the DisneyToons studio in Australia (some of which received theatrical releases), or the Pixar movies (which Disney "presents" but does not produce). WDFA once announced that "Home on the Range" (released April 2 2004) would be its final traditionally animated movie. They also said that from "Chicken Little" (released November 4 2005) onwards, all future WDFA movies will be computer animated. However, this changed in July 2006 when a new traditionally animated movie, "The Frog Princess", was revealed to be in development.
These movies use Live-action with animation. They are not considered a part of the official canon.
To date, all theatrical animated movies created by DisneyToon Studios are traditionally (2-D) animated.




</doc>
<doc id="13952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13952" title="List of Disney movies">
List of Disney movies

This is a list of notable theatrical feature movies produced by Walt Disney Productions and its current label, Walt Disney Pictures. 

If Walt Disney Productions did not or will not produce the movie and only distributed it, the movie will not be included on this list. This list also does not include movies labeled, produced or distributed by other Disney imprints or subsidiaries, and does not include any direct-to-video releases or theatrical re-releases.

This list is not for movies produced by Disneynature, Touchstone Pictures, Hollywood Pictures, Miramax Films, or Studio Ghibli.

(*) Animation constitutes the majority of film duration.

</div>


</doc>
<doc id="13953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13953" title="Ku Klux Klan">
Ku Klux Klan

The Ku Klux Klan is a hate group, which was started in the southern United States in 3rd March 1865. Most of its hate has been towards African-Americans, but it has also attacked Catholics, Jews and immigrants. It has sought to keep something called "white power", often through very violent acts such as killing people. The first Ku Klux Klan and does not exist anymore. However, other groups with the same name and many of the same ideas have been created. 

The Ku Klux Klan (acronym KKK) is an organization which was created in the South of the United States in 1865. This was after the American Civil War. It was made to protest against the new government. During this time, there were troops based in the ex-Confederacy states. The Klan was scared that the population in the South could lose their democratic rights. Also the Klan members believed that African Americans were inferior to (less than) white people. The Klan acted against black people. Republicans were also targets of attacks by the klan. The methods of acting against people were often the same: the Klan members tried to frighten the people that the Klan wanted to go out of town. The KKK tried to scare people by burning crosses or by threatening them. If people did not react, the Klan killed them. The growing violence which was celebrated by the KKK led to many lynchings (giving a person an unfair trial and killing them, often by hanging by the neck.)The Klan was a "large" problem. The KKK was "prohibited" (made against the law) in 1871. After 1871, many KKK members were imprisoned (put in jail) However, the Klan had achieved many of its original goals. For example, the troops were moved out of the Southern states, to the Middle West.

In 1915, William J. Simmons started the Ku Klux Klan for a second time. Most of the rituals and traditions of the “old” Ku Klux Klan were kept. Any white Protestant man could join the KKK. The KKK still attacked African Americans, but they also attacked Jews and Catholics this time. 
In 1920, growing economic problems caused the Klan to get "much" bigger. The KKK strongly argued for “white supremacy” again and again. “White supremacy” says that people who are white (from European origins) are better than other racial groups. The Klan killed many blacks. These were not legal executions because there were no trials. Many sources now think these acts were a kind of terrorism, because the KKK used fear to control African Americans and take away their human rights.
In the middle of the 20’s the Klan got smaller due to bad leaders and so much violence.
After the Second World War, the Klan closed again because it owed more money than it could pay. 

In 1954, the United States Supreme Court (the highest court in the US) made an important decision. The case was "Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas". The court "ruled" (decided) that it was un-Constitutional to have different schools for black and white children. When this ruling passed, many independent groups using the Ku Klux Klan name attacked African Americans.

In the summer of 1964, Edgar Killen killed three African Americans that participated in the civil rights movement. Killen was a member of the Ku Klux Klan. There was an early trial in 1967, but in this trial there was an all-white jury and so Killen was set free. In 1988 a movie called "Mississippi Burning" was made which talked about the events of this case. In 2005 there was another trial. Killen (now 80 years old) was sentenced to prison for 160 years.

Today, there may be about 5,000 members.


</doc>
<doc id="13958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13958" title="Brown v. Board of Education">
Brown v. Board of Education

Brown versus Board of Education (1954) (full name Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas) was an important law case in the United States. This case was decided by the Supreme Court of the United States, which is the highest court in the US.

In Topeka, Kansas, a black third-grader girl, named Linda Brown had to walk more than a mile through a railroad switchyard to get to her black school, even though there was a white elementary school less than seven blocks away. Her father tried to get her into the white school, but the principal of the school refused. Twelve more black parents joined Oliver Brown, Linda’s father, in trying to get their children into the white elementary school. Even though it was said that the two schools were both equal, this was not true. As the principal refused to allow their children into his school, a legal case was made. The case won and it was made illegal for there to be separate schools for blacks and white, even though some states, at first, refused. This case was supported by NAACP.

The Supreme Court has nine justices. The vote on "Brown v. Board of Education" was unanimous, meaning that all nine justices voted the same way. The ruling in the case was written by Earl Warren, who was Chief Justice. He said "“separate educational facilities are inherently unequal."" This undid an earlier decision called "Plessy v. Ferguson", which said that separate but equal was acceptable. This decision made racial segregation of schools against the law in every US state. Some states resisted (did not obey) this court decision at first. It was not until the early 1970s that all US public schools were "integrated" (the opposite of segregated)

These links may not be in simple English:


</doc>
<doc id="13960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13960" title="Well">
Well

A well is a hole that is dug into the Earth to get water (or crude oil or natural gas). Wells can be as simple as a hole that a bucket on a rope can be lowered into, or very complex with pipes and high-powered pumps to get the water out. Most cities that are not located close to fresh water lakes or rivers get their water from a well.

It is important to be careful what rubbish is put into the ground near a well. If something toxic is put in the ground, it could end up in the water from the well and make people sick.

Water is a problem for many African countries. Many charities are helping to build wells in local villages to help stop lengthy travel to distant water supply.


</doc>
<doc id="13963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13963" title="Honey">
Honey

Honey is a solid or liquid food that is made by honeybees by transforming nectar. Then, they put the honey into a honeycomb. Honey is sweet and can be used instead of sugar.
Honey is first mentioned in the Book of Exodus, and is often associated with pleasant and comfortable things. "Land of Milk and honey".
It is also referenced in the Qur'an, with similar associations to good and evil being.

Much like wine, there are several varieties of honey with different tastes, colors and textures. Some common types are derived from bees who use the clover flower's pollen. It is thick and has a medium color. It tends to crystallize/granulate more quickly when exposed to air. Acacia flowers produce another common variety.

Some flowers, such as azaleas, and rhododendron, lend toxic properties to the honey, that are harmful to humans, but does not affect the bees. The resulting feeling is similar to using hallucinogens, producing erratic and uncontrollable behaviors. 


</doc>
<doc id="13964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13964" title="Sweet">
Sweet

Sweet can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="13965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13965" title="Cracker">
Cracker

A cracker is a thin and crispy piece of baked bread. Crackers can be eaten by themselves, but they can also be eaten with things on them called toppings. Common toppings include cheese, peanut butter, and sliced meats. Crackers are most often eaten as a snack, or crumbled into soup.
It was 1792 when Theodore Pearson of Newburyport, Massachusetts, made a cracker-like bread that was made from only water and flour which he called "Pearson's Pilot Bread." This was the first cracker bakery in the United States, and made crackers for more than a century.


</doc>
<doc id="13966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13966" title="Surgery">
Surgery

Surgery is an operation that involves a doctor. The doctor helps his patients by taking out, changing or fixing parts of the human body. Doctors who do surgeries are called surgeons. Many surgeons are experts in certain areas; for example, a surgeon that operates on bones is called an orthopaedic (orth-o-pae-dic) surgeon.

Surgery (operations) can be very simple, like taking a tooth out. Surgery can also be very complicated, like surgery to remove a cancer.

Operating rooms have to be very clean places. The doctors and nurses go to great lengths to keep the room clean where the surgery is done. Regular cleaning of the room and its tools is done to keep everything clean and germ-free.

Everyone in the operating room must wear special clothes, hats, shoes, gowns, gloves and masks that are clean and germ free. The only people allowed in the operating rooms are the doctors and nurses as well as the patient too.

When people have operations they are normally put to sleep with anaesthesia. When the patients are asleep, they cannot feel anything.

In recent years, many patients that cannot get the required surgery in their own country, or find the costs too high, travel to another country for medical care. This is called Medical Tourism.



</doc>
<doc id="13967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13967" title="Pizza">
Pizza

Pizza is a type of food that was created in Italy. It is usually made by putting "toppings" (such as cheese, sausage, pepperoni, vegetables, tomatoes, spices and herbs) over a piece of bread covered with sauce; most often tomato, but sometimes butter-based sauces are used. (The piece of bread is usually called a "pizza crust".) Almost any kind of topping can be put over a pizza. The toppings people use are different in different parts of the world. Pizza comes from Italy, from Neapolitan cuisine, but has become popular in many parts of the world.

The word "Pizza" is Italian for pita, that one time went to Naples around 1823. This is the name for a special type of flat bread, made with special dough. Pizzas seem to come from Naples, originally. Pizzas with toppings like olive oil, tomato slices, and basil have been known since about the 18th century. At that time, growing tomatoes in the south of Italy became popular. However the name of the pizza may be older. Flatbreads like the focaccia from Liguria have been known for a very long time. Pizzas need to be baked at temperatures of 200 - 250 °C. Hardly any household oven could reach such temperatures at the time. Because of this, the pizza was made at home, and then given to the town bakery to bake. In June 1889, the Neapolitan chef Raffaele Esposito created the "Margherita" in honour of Queen Margherita, and was the first pizza to include cheese.

As Italians emigrated after World War I, pizza became an international dish.

In the 20th century, pizza has become an international food and the toppings may be quite different in accordance with local tastes. These pizzas consist of the same basic design but include many choice of ingredients, such as anchovies, egg, pineapple, banana, coconut, sauerkraut, eggplant, kimchi, lamb, couscous, chicken, fish, and shellfish, meats prepared in styles such as Moroccan lamb, shawarma or chicken tikka masala, and non-traditional spices such as curry and Thai sweet chili. Pizzas can also be made without meat for vegetarians, and without cheese for vegans.

Neapolitan pizza ("pizza Napoletana"). Authentic Neapolitan pizzas are made with local ingredients like San Marzano tomatoes, which grow on the volcanic plains to the south of Mount Vesuvius and Mozzarella di Bufala Campana, made with the milk from water buffalo raised in the marshlands of Campania and Lazio in a semi-wild state (this mozzarella is protected by its own European law). The genuine Neapolitan pizza dough consists of Italian flour, natural Neapolitan yeast or brewer's yeast, salt and water.The dough must be kneaded by hand or with a low-speed mixer. After the rising process, the dough must be formed by hand without the help of a rolling pin or other mechanical device, and may be no more than 3 mm (1/8 in) thick.Pizza is cooked in a oven.When cooked, it should be crispy, tender and fragrant. Neapolitan pizza has gained the status of "guaranteed traditional specialty" in Italy. This admits only three official variants: Pizza marinara, which is made with tomato, garlic, oregano and extra virgin olive oil (although most Neapolitan pizzerias also add basil to the marinara), Pizza Margherita, made with tomato,mozzarella, basil and extra virgin olive oil, and Pizza Margherita Extra made with tomato, buffalo mozzarella from Campania in fillets, basil and extra virgin olive oil.
Lazio style: Pizza in Lazio (Rome), as well as in many other parts of Italy is available in 2 different "flavors": 1) In take-away shops so-called "Pizza Rustica" or "Pizza a Taglio". Pizza is cooked in long, rectangular baking pans and relatively thick (1–2 cm). The crust similar to that of an English muffin and mostly cooked in an electric oven. When purchased, it is usually cut with scissors or knife and priced by weight. 2) In Pizza Restaurants (Pizzerias) it is served in a dish in its traditional round shape.

Other types of Lazio-style pizza include:


Sicilian-style pizza has its toppings baked directly into the crust. 
Pizza Hut's Sicilian Pizza, introduced in 1994, is not an authentic example of the style as only garlic, basil, and oregano are mixed into the crust,it's sold in the restaurant chain "Pizza Hut".

White pizza ("pizza bianca") uses no tomato sauce, often substituting pesto or dairy products such as sour cream. Most commonly, especially on the East Coast of the United States, the toppings consist only of mozzarella and ricotta cheese drizzled with olive oil and basil and garlic. In Rome, the term "pizza bianca" refers to a type of bread topped only with olive oil.

Antica Pizzeria Port'Alba, the first pizzeria in Italy, started making pizzas in 1738 and still serves pizza today.

Some global pizza franchises are Pizza Hut, Domino's Pizza, Cici's Pizza, Papa John's and Little Caesars.

Frozen pizza is pizza that has been prepared beforehand, and is then deep-frozen, to be distributed in supermarkets. It is among the most successful and popular types of convenience food. 


</doc>
<doc id="13968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13968" title="Pepperoni">
Pepperoni

Pepperoni is a meat food that is sometimes sliced thin and put on pizza. It is a kind of salami, which can be quite spicy. It comes from Italy.


</doc>
<doc id="13969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13969" title="Conception">
Conception

Conception has different meanings:



</doc>
<doc id="13970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13970" title="Abdomen">
Abdomen

The Abdomen is the part of the body that is between the chest and the thigh. It contains (has in it) many organs. Some of the organs in the abdomen are:


</doc>
<doc id="13971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13971" title="Heaven">
Heaven

Heaven is a concept of the afterlife (what happens after you die) in many religions. People who believe in heaven say that it is a place that is perfect (very "very" good and with no problems.) They believe heaven is where people will go after they die if they have been good. Some people also believe in Hell, which is a place where people will go when they die, if they have been bad. They believe hell is a punishment for being bad. Ideas of Heaven and Hell are not the same in all religions.

Heaven meant "sky" when it was first used. So "the heavens" is another way of saying the sky or outer space. This was because early people believed that heaven was a physical place. This place was located in the sky.

According to the Bible, Heaven is the place where God and spirits live eternally. It is another word for the spiritual world, because God is pure spirit. Heavenly just means spiritual, so for instance the Kingdom of Heaven is the kingdom of the spirit. However, the people called prophets in the Bible, like Isaiah, often spoke of a physical Kingdom of Heaven that will occupy a new Earth, and ruled by God (Messiah) in the flesh himself, where we will have physical bodies that do not again die. Many people who believe in Heaven today often have ideas different from the Bible.

According to the Koran and Hadith, Heaven is a place of reward for those believers who accept the true faith and practices the teaching of Prophet Muhammad. The eternal life will be perfect, with thousands of types of food and clothing more beautiful than humans could ever imagine. There will also be no sad feelings, stress or pain and related problems of life. 

Summerland is the name given by Wiccans and other Pagan (old European religions) to their belief of afterlife (life after death). Commonly, Summerland is as a place of rest for souls or spirits in between their incarnations (life on earth). It is believed to be a place of beauty and peace. It is described as a place of green hills and lush grass. Most believers say that the soul has little memory of Summerland when it comes back into life. The Summerland is also a place for meeting with deceased loved ones.
Some believe that, after experiencing many lives, they will stay in Summerland for eternity (always).


</doc>
<doc id="13972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13972" title="Button">
Button

A button can have three meanings.



</doc>
<doc id="13974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13974" title="Multiprocessing">
Multiprocessing

Multiprocessing is the use of two or more central processing units (CPUs) within a single computer system. The CPUs do not have to be the same. Systems that treat all CPUs equally are called symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) systems.



</doc>
<doc id="13975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13975" title="Multitasking">
Multitasking

Multitasking means that a computer can run more than one item of software at the same time. It can also refer to a person who is working on more than one task at the same time (for instance, talking on the telephone while filing papers).

Computers with only one Central Processing Unit can only appear to run more than one program. Computer scientists solve the problem that a CPU can only do one thing at a time by programming it so that it switches rapidly between tasks. This happens so rapidly that it appears that the computer is running more than one program at once. This action is often controlled by the Operating System controlling the hardware of the system.

The more things the computer has to do at once, the more time it has to spend deciding which to give more time to, and the less time each one receives. This tends to make the computer perform its tasks more slowly, unless it uses a multi-core processor.



</doc>
<doc id="13976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13976" title="Multithreading">
Multithreading

Multithreading means that a computer can work on different parts of the same program at the same time. This usually allows the program to run faster.



</doc>
<doc id="13977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13977" title="Fertilization">
Fertilization

Fertilization (English spelling: fertilisation) is what happens when a female's ovum (or "egg") joins together with a male's sperm and they form a zygote. Fertilization is also called "conception". 

In humans, biologists call a fertilized egg a zygote. It is called an embryo from 3–8 weeks (the "embryonic period".) Then after 8 weeks, it is called a fetus.

If it continues to grow normally it can eventually become a baby.

People have different beliefs about when life starts:
This difference in what people believe has led to many arguments over abortion.


</doc>
<doc id="13981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13981" title="Decision">
Decision

Decision can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="13982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13982" title="Whiteboard">
Whiteboard

A whiteboard, also called a markerboard, is a drawing surface on which markings made with markers are visible. It is used as a surface to write on. Whiteboards are often used to help teach. Special markers are used that can be erased. Whiteboards usually have a glossy surface. In the past, when the whiteboards were not yet created, people used blackboards, where you needed to use chalk instead of markers. Now, there is another improvement, people are now using electronic whiteboards, where it is controlled by a computer.



</doc>
<doc id="13983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13983" title="Chemist">
Chemist

A chemist is a scientist who studies chemistry. In England can also mean a pharmacist (person who dispenses medicines that doctors prescribe for people). Chemistry is the study of elements, atoms, molecules, and how they react together. Chemists research and test medicines, explosives, and a lot of other things. Chemistry is a very important science because it is how we got almost all of the newer, more powerful medicines.


</doc>
<doc id="13984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13984" title="Biologist">
Biologist

A biologist is a scientist who studies biology. Biologists study living organisms.
There are many different kinds of biologists. Some of these include:
<br>


</doc>
<doc id="13986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13986" title="Testicular cancer">
Testicular cancer

Testicular cancer is a type of cancer that develops in one or both testicles, a part of the male reproductive system. In the United States, about 8,000 to 9,000 people are diagnosed with testicular cancer every year. Every male has a 1 in 250 (four tenths of one percent, or 0.4%) chance of being diagnosed with it. It is most common among males aged 15-40 years. Testicular cancer has one of the highest cure rates of all cancers; more than 90%. This is most often achieved by removing one or both testicles. Even in the small number of cases where the cancer has spread widely, chemotherapy offers a cure rate of at least 50%.

Because testicular cancer is curable (stage I can have a success rate of >95%) when detected early, experts recommend regular monthly testicular self-examination after a hot shower or bath, when the scrotum is looser. Men are advised to feel each testicle, feeling for pea-shaped lumps.
Symptoms of testicular cancer include one or more of the following:

How bad the cancer is and whether it is present at all is often discovered through ultrasound of the testicles, x-rays, and/or CT scans. Blood tests are also used to identify and measure tumour markers that are only in a person's blood if they have testicular cancer. Biopsies should not be performed because it increases the risk of migrating cancer cells into the scrotum.


</doc>
<doc id="13987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13987" title="Future">
Future

The future is something that has not happened yet. Once that something has happened, it is called the past. If it is happening now, it is called the present.

Movies, television shows and books that tell made-up stories about the future are called science fiction.


</doc>
<doc id="13988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13988" title="Fetus">
Fetus

A fetus or foetus is the stage that an organism goes through before it is born as a baby. A fetus in humans talks about the stage (time of development) after the embryonic stage, which is the third to eighth week of development after fertilization. The "fetal" stage is 8 weeks until birth.


</doc>
<doc id="13989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13989" title="Past">
Past

The past is something that has already happened. If something has not happened yet, it is called the future.

Professors and researchers that study the events of the past, and try to explain why these events happened are called history professors or historians.

Many books, movies, and television shows tell made-up stories about the past. These are called historical fiction. Some books, movies, and television shows from a style called science fiction or fantasy tell made-up stories about being able to travel through time back to the past.


</doc>
<doc id="13990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13990" title="Particle">
Particle

Particles are tiny bits of matter that make up everything in the universe. In particle physics, an elementary particle is a particle which cannot be split up into smaller pieces. 

There are many different types of particles, all with different sizes and properties. 

Three particles which are all around us are the proton, the neutron, and the electron. These are the particles which make atoms. The proton has a positive charge (a + charge). The neutron has a neutral charge. The electron has a negative charge (a - charge), and it is the smallest of these three particles. In atoms, there is a small nucleus in the center, which is where the protons and neutrons are, and electrons orbit the nucleus.

Protons and neutrons are not elementary particles because they are made up of quarks. There are six different types of quarks. These are the up quark, the down quark, the strange quark, the charm quark, the bottom quark, and the top quark. A neutron is made of two down quarks and one up quark. The proton is made up of two up quarks and one down quark.


</doc>
<doc id="13993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13993" title="Ellen DeGeneres">
Ellen DeGeneres

Ellen DeGeneres (born January 26, 1958) is an American comedian and television star. She has appeared in the sitcom "Ellen" and is the host of "The Ellen Degeneres Show". She is a lesbian and her coming out caused a controversy among many people that watched her television series. Since 2004, DeGeneres has been in a relationship with Australian actress Portia de Rossi. They were married on August 16, 2008. She has joined the judges panel on American Idol starting with its ninth season.


</doc>
<doc id="13994" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13994" title="Rosie O'Donnell">
Rosie O'Donnell

Rosie O'Donnell (born March 21, 1962) is an American actress and television host. She gained exposure by appearing on "Star Search", a talent show.

O'Donnell won the Emmy award in 1999. She is openly lesbian, and lives with a woman partner.

O'Donnell is now the host of the show "The View" on ABC.




</doc>
<doc id="13996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13996" title="Ass">
Ass

Ass can mean different things:




</doc>
<doc id="13997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13997" title="Tissue (biology)">
Tissue (biology)

Tissue means a part of an organ or organism. Tissues are groups of cells that work together to protect the body.They can also be defined as a group of cells having the same origin, structure and function. The cells look the same or almost the same. The work the cells do is also the same or almost the same.

Tissue is different from organ. Organs are made up of more than one kind of tissue. The heart is an organ. It is made up of different tissues. It has muscle tissue. It has connective tissue like the endocardium. The endocardium is the thin layer of tissue that forms the heart. The heart has valves that make sure the blood only goes forward through the heart. So the heart is an organ made from different tissues.All the organs in our body are made up of tissues,tissues help in protecting skin,mitosis etc.Tissues are an inevitable part of our life and without tissues we would not have organs and many more things!

The study of the structure of tissues under a microscope is called histology.


</doc>
<doc id="13998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13998" title="Cock">
Cock

Cock can mean different things:



</doc>
<doc id="13999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13999" title="Shit">
Shit

Shit is a slang term for feces. Shit is a swear word (an offensive, rude, or impolite word) to most English speakers.
It can also mean things other than feces, depending on the conversation. It can be used as an angry shout. It can sometimes be an adjective or verb. The term bullshit, a variant of the word shit, is a slang term that means nonsense.


</doc>
<doc id="14000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000" title="Piss">
Piss

Piss or pissed are slang words for:


</doc>
<doc id="14001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14001" title="Cunt">
Cunt

Cunt is an abusive word that is used against people as an insult. It can also be slang for the vagina.

Unlike many words of profanity that came from Anglo-Saxon, this word came from a Latin one ("cuneus", meaning a wedge shape). After the Norman invasion of England, it replaced the native word for vagina, mægþblæd.


</doc>
<doc id="14002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14002" title="Dick">
Dick

Dick could mean:


People named "'Dick":

Dick's could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="14003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14003" title="Nut">
Nut

Nut or nuts can mean different things:


</doc>
<doc id="14005" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14005" title="Bitch">
Bitch

Bitch can mean different things:



</doc>
<doc id="14008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14008" title="Ball and chain">
Ball and chain

Ball and chain is a slang term for a person's spouse. It is usually used in a joking way, although sometimes it is used in derogatory way. The term comes from when prisoners were kept in one place by tying a heavy iron ball to their leg with a chain.


</doc>
<doc id="14009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14009" title="Cum">
Cum

Cum can mean different things:


</doc>
<doc id="14010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14010" title="Faggot (food)">
Faggot (food)

A faggot is a kind of meatball, a traditional dish in the UK, especially the southwest of England, Wales, and the Black Country. It is made from meat off-cuts and offal, especially pork. A faggot is usually made from pig heart, liver and fatty belly meat or bacon minced together, with herbs for flavouring and sometimes breadcrumbs. The mixture is shaped in the hand into balls, wrapped round with caul (a membrane from the pig's abdomen), and baked. A similar dish, "almôndega", is traditional in Portugal.


</doc>
<doc id="14011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14011" title="Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch">
Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch

Llanfair PG or Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch is a village on the island of Anglesey in Wales, Britain. It is in the Guinness Book of Records for being the place with the longest name in Britain. 

The name means "St Mary's church in the hollow of the white hazel near to the rapid whirlpool and the church of St Tysilio of the red cave" in Welsh. It was invented in the 1860s by a local tailor to make the village famous for having the railway station with the longest name.

English speakers saying "Clan-vire-poolth-guin-gilth-go-ger-u-queern-drob-oolth-clandus-ilio-gogo-goch" will sound close to how it is meant to sound.

A recording of a person saying the name properly can be heard by listening to this sound file on the village website.


</doc>
<doc id="14012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14012" title="Pneumoconiosis">
Pneumoconiosis

Pneumoconiosis is a form of occupational lung disease. It is not an infective disease. It is a progressive (gets worse with time) degenerative disorder. It is caused by air pollution in the form of particulates. It was common among coal miners, who inhaled coal dust regularly.

Another type of pneumoconiosis is 'asbestosis', caused by inhaling asbestos fibres. A third type is caused by inhaling minute silica particles, called 'silicosis'. All forms of pneuomoconiosis shorten life, and have no cure.

Indications:

Pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis is a lung disease caused by the breathing-in of very small particles of sand or quartz dust found in volcanoes. The origins of this forty-five-letter word have, however, been considered as a hoax. It was first seen in the Oxford English Dictionary in 1936.


</doc>
<doc id="14013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14013" title="Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu">
Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu

Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhenuakitanatahu (or Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu) is the Maori name of a hill in New Zealand. The short form Taumata is used in everyday talk. The hill is 305 meters high.

It has eighty-five letters in its name. It is one of the longest place names in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="14014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14014" title="Category:587">
Category:587


</doc>
<doc id="14015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14015" title="Category:580s deaths">
Category:580s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 580s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="14016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14016" title="Category:580s">
Category:580s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 580s which begins in the year 580 and ends in the year 589.


</doc>
<doc id="14017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14017" title="Category:6th century births">
Category:6th century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 6th century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14018" title="Category:512">
Category:512


</doc>
<doc id="14020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14020" title="Category:570s births">
Category:570s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 570s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14021" title="Something Awful">
Something Awful

Something Awful is a comedy website and forums. People have to pay money to join the forums to talk with other people around the world. It currently costs $9.95 (US Dollars) to join. 

Something Awful was started by Richard "Lowtax" Kyanka in 1999.

In March, 2008 Richard "Lowtax" Kyanka left forums management to Kevin "Fragmaster" Bowen, in order to focus on operating the main site.



</doc>
<doc id="14022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14022" title="Category:510s births">
Category:510s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 510s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14023" title="Category:570s">
Category:570s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 570s which begins in the year 570 and ends in the year 579.


</doc>
<doc id="14024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14024" title="Category:510s">
Category:510s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 510s which begins in the year 510 and ends in the year 519.


</doc>
<doc id="14025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14025" title="Fark.com">
Fark.com

Fark is a comedy website and forums.

Fark was started by Drew Curtis in 1999 as a weblog where users post current news articles and other information. Then other users make comments on these articles. There are two classes of users; users with free subscriptions are able to post comments in the forums and submit new articles. There is also a subscription service called TotalFark that grants access to more news stories. Regular subscribers are known as Farkers and paying subscribers are often called TotalFarkers or TFers.

Fark is what's known as a news agregator. The page is divided into several tabs, "Not News", "Sports", "Business", "Geek", "Showbiz", "Politics", "Music", and "Video" Users submit stories that are relevant to each tab, and staffers and subscribers decide which ones are posted. Once a story is posted, a corresponding forum thread is created where any subscriber can comment on the story.



</doc>
<doc id="14029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14029" title="Menstruation">
Menstruation

Menstruation or "menses" is when a girl has blood come out of her vagina for 2-7 days every month. A slang word for menses is a period or "dot".

Before women begin their menses, there is cloudy white liquid-like fluid that comes out of the vaginal wall and eventually leaks on to their underwear. A girl begins this cycle about a year before the actual menstruating happens. When the liquid turns a deep brownish colour, the leaking starts to become often. After the leaking stops, which is within a year of it first happening then she begins to menstruate for 3-5 days. Once the experience becomes normal and adjusts to the body function, then she will leak about 2-7 days.

Most women menstruate for 3-5 days every month. However, anywhere from 2-7 days is normal. The amount of blood lost is normally about 50ml. Women usually use a pad or a tampon to keep the blood from staining their undergarments.

Menopause is menstruation pausing at the age of around 45-70. Symptoms include irritability, heat, vaginal burning and/or discomfort, vaginal dryness. A slang word for it is called "the change". Most women must take a few months to adjust to the dryness. After they stop their period they can no longer produce babies.

The fluid that comes out looks like blood, but it is more than just blood. It also has endometrial tissue. This is the tissue that lines the inside of the uterus (womb).

Menses happens in the first days of the menstrual cycle. This is the changes that happen in a woman's body every month. These changes are started by changes in hormone levels in the blood. These changes also cause a woman to ovulate and make an ovum (also called "egg"). Menstruation usually starts around the age of 11, even as early as 9 years old, and ends when the woman is too old to have children. However, some women can still have children from the age of 50-70.

Some women have pain in the low part of the abdomen when they menstruate, known as cramps. The hormones that are produced before and during a period can also make a woman feel moody, or just strange. This is called premenstrual syndrome or PMS. A women can feel bloated or swollen and have long cramps. Hormones can rage and cause an aggressive sex drive. Women can throw temper tantrums and can even feel suicidal or depressed.

Most women use something to absorb or catch their menses. There are a number of different methods available. The most common used way to absorb the menses is using sanitary napkins, tampons and padded underwear. Some women use sea sponges, towels and other reusable absorbing items.

In addition to products to contain the menstrual flow, pharmaceutical companies likewise provide products — commonly non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) — to relieve menstrual cramps. Some herbs, such as dong quai, raspberry leaf and crampbark, are also claimed to relieve menstrual pain, however there is no documented scientific evidence.


</doc>
<doc id="14031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14031" title="Period">
Period

Period means different things.



</doc>
<doc id="14033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14033" title="Template:Infobox Pope">
Template:Infobox Pope


</doc>
<doc id="14037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14037" title="Corinthian-Casuals F.C.">
Corinthian-Casuals F.C.

The Corinthian Casuals are a football team located in Tolworth, Surrey, England playing in the Isthmian League Division One South.


</doc>
<doc id="14045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14045" title="MediaWiki:Noimage">
MediaWiki:Noimage

No file by this name exists, you can for something like it or $1.

</doc>
<doc id="14047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14047" title="Nightclub">
Nightclub

A nightclub is a type of bar or club for men and women (usually 20 or older) to socialize and meet other adults and consume alcoholic drinks such as wine, beer, and mixed drinks. Most nightclubs are only open in the evening and in the night. Some nightclubs are open during the day, but in these cases, the facility usually provides a different service, such as a restaurant service.
Some nightclubs have a dance floor and a DJ playing pop, rock, and dance music recordings so that people can dance. Some nightclubs have entertainment such as pop bands, rock bands, or comedians. Some nightclubs have a quieter lounge area with couches, sofas, and low tables, so that people can talk together.

Some nightclubs also serve a small selection of food, usually snacks or finger food. Nightclubs often have a much wider selection of alcoholic drinks than pubs (pubs specialize in beer and ale). Most nightclubs sell a number of different brands of spirits, liquers, wine, sherry, Some nightclubs have a large selection of expensive brands of alcohol (these are called "premium" brands).

The bartenders (also called "barmen" or "barmaids") at nightclubs often make a much larger variety of mixed drinks than pubs. Mixed drinks and cocktails are alcoholic drinks that consist of one or more types of alcohol (e.g., rum, vodka, whiskey, etc.) mixed with flavorings such as orange juice, cream, chocolate syrup, or soda. Many mixed drinks also include ice, crushed ice, or sliced lemon or lime. 

Some well-known mixed drinks include the martini, the "Rum and Coke", and the "screwdriver" (orange juice mixed with vodka).

Nightclubs hire a variety of staff to do different jobs. Bartenders (also called "barmen" or "barmaids") at nightclubs serve alcohol and mix drinks. Some nightclubs hire servers to bring drinks to people who are sitting at tables or in chairs. Some nightclubs also hire people to take away empty bottles and glasses. 

Security in nightclubs is provided by door staff, often called "bouncers". Door staff check the identification of people entering the nightclub, to ensure that people that are too young to drink do not enter the club. Door staff also prevent drunk or aggressive people from entering the nightclub. They also escort people out of the club if they are too drunk, fighting, or taking drugs. Door staff may also call the police if they cannot deal with a situation.

Nightclubs that serve food have cooks, dishwashers, and servers to prepare, cook, and serve the food. Nightclubs also have coat check employees who hang up the patron's coats, sound technicians to maintain the sound system (the CD players, amplifiers, and speakers), and cleaners (to sweep the floors and clean the bathrooms). Some large nightclubs may hire DJs to work in the club every week as employees. 

DJs, bands, comedians who entertain patrons during the evening are usually not usually employees of the nightclub. Instead, the nightclub signs a contract with these entertainers, in which the entertainer promises to come to the club on a specified night, in return for a sum of money.


</doc>
<doc id="14048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14048" title="Freezing">
Freezing

Freezing is the process when a liquid turns into a solid. Freezing occurs when heat is lost from an object, which causes the molecules to slow down and form tighter bonds. basically in short terms freezing is when, lets say, water turns into ice. Freezing is the opposite of melting, and two steps away from evaporation. 



</doc>
<doc id="14049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14049" title="Precious metal">
Precious metal

A precious metal is a type of metal that is worth a lot of money compared to most other metals. Some precious metals are gold, silver, and platinum. Many pieces of jewelry are made out of precious metals.

The precious metal worth the most amount of money for the same mass is Rhodium.


</doc>
<doc id="14050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14050" title="Jewellery">
Jewellery

Jewellery (or jewelry) refers to any clothing accessory that is worn as a decoration. Jewellery differs from other items of personal adornment in that it has no other purpose than to look attractive. Items such as belts and handbags are considered to be accessories rather than jewellery. Yet some jewellery does have some practical effect: a broach, for example was often worn to keep a cloak closed.

Humans have made jewelry for a long time. There are many forms of jewelry worn for traditional, social or religious reasons. Jewelry can come in many forms, worn on any part of the body or clothing. Jewelry most often are rings, chains, bead strings, pendants and piercings, worn around or on different body parts.

Jewelry can be made from any material. The first jewelry was made from bone, animal teeth, wood or stone. Jewelry often uses gemstones and precious metals.

"Fashion jewelry" or "Costume jewelry" is jewelry that is worn just for fashion, and is not made of expensive materials.



</doc>
<doc id="14051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14051" title="Potassium">
Potassium

Potassium is a chemical element in the periodic table. It has the symbol K. This symbol is taken from the Latin word "kalium". Potassium's atomic number is 19. It has 19 protons and electrons. Potassium is not found as an element in nature, because it is so reactive.

Potassium has two stable isotopes, with 20 or 22 neutrons. Its atomic mass is 39.098. 

Potassium is a soft gray metal. It can be cut easily with a knife. Its melting point is 63 degrees celsius (145.4 degrees Fahrenheit). It melts at a very low temperature. It is an alkali metal. It is the second lightest metal, after lithium. 

Potassium reacts in many chemical reactions similar to sodium and other alkali metals. It tarnishes in air to produce a whitish oxidized layer on the surface. This is why it is stored in oil. It also reacts very fast with water, which is another reason for its storage in oil. The hydrogen produced during its reaction with water can burst into flames when a large amount of potassium is added to water. Potassium hydroxide is also produced. Potassium also burns in air easily, to make the peroxide or the superoxide.

Potassium compounds are only in one oxidation state: +1. Potassium ions are colorless and similar to sodium ions. Potassium chloride can be used as a substitute for table salt. Potassium hydroxide is used in the electrolyte of alkaline cells. Most potassium compounds are nontoxic. If they are toxic, it is because of the anion. Potassium chromate is colored because of the chromate, not the potassium. Potassium chromate is toxic because of the chromate, not the potassium.

The word potassium comes from the word "potash". Potash is a chemical that is a mixture of potassium carbonate and potassium hydroxide that has been used for a very long time. It is used to make fertilizer, soap, and glass.

Potassium does not occur in nature because it is too reactive. It is found in minerals, though. It is extracted from them by electrolysis of potassium hydroxide or potassium chloride. The potassium hydroxide or potassium chloride has to be melted at a very high temperature.

It is used to absorb water from solvents. It is also used in some scientific instruments.

"Main article: Potassium compounds"

Potassium compounds are used in soap, fertilizer, explosives, and matches.

Potassium ions are very important to organisms. They send messages from cells to other cells. It helps biological membranes "depolarize". This means go from a negative to a positive electrical charge. This is needed for muscles to "contract" (get shorter and move things.) It is needed for the heart to "beat" (push blood through blood vessels.) If the potassium level in the blood is too high or too low it can cause death because the heart stops. A few good sources of potassium are bananas, apricots and raisins.

Potassium metal is very dangerous and can form an explosive coating if it is kept in air. It also reacts violently with water, spewing corrosive liquid all over. Potassium compounds are not normally dangerous, unless they contain a toxic anion like chromate or chlorate.



</doc>
<doc id="14055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14055" title="The Simpsons">
The Simpsons

The Simpsons is an American television programme that is an animated comedy, created by Matt Groening. The comedy takes place in the fake (make-believe) town of Springfield. It started on December 17, 1989 and so far 486 episodes have aired over 22 seasons. As of today, the show is in its 22nd season, which will air in 2010-2011. The end of the 18th season was the 400th episode. A full-length movie, The Simpsons Movie has been made, released on July 27, 2007, in order to celebrate The Simpsons franchise.

The television show "The Simpsons" was originally shown as short shows on "The Tracy Ullman Show". Fox then decided to give them their own show in 1989.

Many episodes begin with a scene of Springfield Elementary School, where Bart Simpson is shown writing lines on a chalkboard as punishment for being bad. For example, in one episode, Bart writes, "I will not conduct my own fire drills." The line is supposed to be humourous. Not every episode has a new one and sometimes the chalkboard gag may be cut because there is not enough time.

In the opening, all the Simpsons come home to the family. After Homer Simpson is almost or is hit by Marge's car, they all go into the living room, where something comical happens again. These are called "couch gags". On one couch gag Homer Simpson walked onto the screen like James Bond and shot the camera. Sometimes if an episode is a short one, then the couch gag will be very long. A couple of couch gags have been over one minute long.

At the end of the show, the credits are shown. Sometimes they might be changed. In one episode, the ending showed Homer reading from a document about Dateline. In another episode, where all of the character sung in song, the character Snake kept firing his gun in order to make the music that was playing stop.

A film based on the show, "The Simpsons Movie", was released in 2007.



</doc>
<doc id="14056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14056" title="Teresa Heinz Kerry">
Teresa Heinz Kerry

Teresa Heinz Kerry (born October 5, 1938) is the wife of United States Senator John Kerry. She is part of the Heinz ketchup family.


</doc>
<doc id="14057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14057" title="Museum">
Museum

A museum is a building where things are collected and then shown to people. Some museums have things that you can do. Museums can be about different things such as Natural History, Science, or Art. Museums with live animals are called zoos. People go to museums sometimes to learn, or to simply have fun. 


</doc>
<doc id="14058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14058" title="Camera">
Camera

A camera is a device that takes pictures (photographs). It uses film or electronics to make a picture of something. A lens makes the image that the film or electronics sees.

A camera that takes one picture at a time is sometimes called a "still camera". A camera that can take many pictures in a row is called a "movie camera". A camera that can take videos is called a "video camera" or a "camcorder". A Camera on a phone is called a "Camera Phone"

All cameras are basically a box that light can not get into until a photo is taken. There is a hole on one side of the camera where the light can get in, and this is called the aperture. On the other side is a special material that can record the image that comes through the aperture. this material is the film in a film camera or electronic sensor in a digital camera. Finally, there is also the shutter, which stops light from getting in until a photo is taken.

When a photo is taken, the shutter moves out of the way. This lets light come in through the aperture and make a picture on the film or electronic sensor. In many cameras, the size of the aperture can be changed to let in more light or less light. The amount of time that the shutter lets light through can be changed as well. This also lets in more light or less light. Most of the time, electronics inside the camera control these, but in some cameras the person taking the picture can change them as well.



</doc>
<doc id="14059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14059" title="News">
News

News is when people talk about current events (things that are happening right now). News can be given in newspapers, television, magazines, or radio. There are several news channels on cable television that give news all day long, such as Fox News and CNN. There are several news magazines, such as "Time" and "Newsweek".


</doc>
<doc id="14061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14061" title="Export">
Export

An export is a product that is sold to people outside of the country in which the product was made.


</doc>
<doc id="14062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14062" title="Observatory">
Observatory

An observatory is a building that holds one or many very big telescopes. Observatories are used by astronomers to look at the sky. Observatories are usually located very high up on mountains or hills, because they need clear and clean air to be able to see out the telescope properly. The higher up you go, the clearer and cleaner the air gets. Observatories also have to be away from places that have lots of light, like cities. Too much light can make it so that the astronomers cannot see out of the telescope very well.


</doc>
<doc id="14065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14065" title="Template:Med-stub">
Template:Med-stub

<includeonly> </includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="14066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14066" title="Epidemic">
Epidemic

An epidemic is a disease that goes over a large area and lots of people. Epidemics are when a disease goes from person to person faster than doctors thought it would. If the disease spreads over the whole world, sometimes it is called a pandemic.


</doc>
<doc id="14067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14067" title="Template:Ref">
Template:Ref


</doc>
<doc id="14068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14068" title="Template:Note">
Template:Note

^ 

</doc>
<doc id="14069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14069" title="Category:Television networks">
Category:Television networks


</doc>
<doc id="14073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14073" title="George of the Jungle">
George of the Jungle

George of the Jungle is an animated television series created by Jay Ward Productions in the late 1960s as a parody (pretending to be but in a way that makes fun of) of Tarzan. In 1997, it was made into a live-action movie by Disney, with Brendan Fraser as the main character. There was a sequel George of the Jungle 2 released direct-to-video in 2003. There was and is a video game based on the film which was and is 2D Platformer game "George of the Jungle" by Ignition Entertainment/Crave in 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="14075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14075" title="Westminster Abbey">
Westminster Abbey

Westminster Abbey is a large and famous Anglican church in Westminster, London. It is the shrine of Edward the Confessor and the burial place of many kings and queens. Since it was built it has been the place where the coronations of Kings and Queens of England have been held. The present structure dates from 1245, when it was started by Henry III.

The status of the Abbey is that of a Royal Peculiar. This means it is place of worship that falls directly under the jurisdiction of the British monarch, rather than under a bishop. The concept dates from Anglo-Saxon times, when a church could ally itself with the monarch and therefore not be subject to the bishop of the area. Technically speaking, it is not a cathedral, though it is regarded as one in practice.

One of the most famous tombs at Westminster Abbey is that of the Unknown Warrior.

Since the coronations in 1066 of both King Harold and William the Conqueror, coronations of English and British monarchs were held in the Abbey. Henry III was unable to be crowned in London when he first came to the throne because the French prince Louis (later Louis VIII) had taken control of the city. So the king was crowned in Gloucester Cathedral, but this coronation was deemed by the Pope to be improper, and a further coronation was held in the Abbey on 17 May 1220. The Archbishop of Canterbury is the cleric in the coronation ceremony.

King Edward's Chair (or St Edward's Chair), is the throne on which British sovereigns sit when the crown is put on their heads. It is kept in the Abbey, and has been used at every coronation since 1308. From 1301 to 1996 (except for 1950 when it was briefly stolen by Scottish nationalists), the chair also housed the Stone of Scone upon which the kings of Scotland are crowned. Although the Stone is now kept in Scotland, at future coronations the Stone will be returned briefy to St Edward's Chair for the moment of coronation.

Until the 19th century, Westminster was the third seat of learning in England, after Oxford and Cambridge. It was here that the first third of the King James Bible Old Testament and the last half of the New Testament were translated. The New English Bible was also put together here in the 20th century.






</doc>
<doc id="14076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14076" title="The Eagles">
The Eagles

The Eagles are an American rock music band. They formed in Los Angeles, California in the early 1970s. They are known worldwide for their hit song, Hotel California. They presently (2006) hold the record for most albums sold, with their "Greatest Hits, Volume I".


</doc>
<doc id="14079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14079" title="Himalayas">
Himalayas

The Himalayas are a mountain range in Asia, the highest in the world. 

They are north within Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir, into the Republic of India's Himachal Pradesh and Uttaranchal states, State of Nepal, and the Kingdoms of Sikkim, and Bhutan; then into South Tibet. 

The 15 highest mountains in the world are in the Himalayas. The main ones are the Mount Everest, K2, Annapurna, and Nanga Parbat. Mount Everest is the tallest mountain on the face of the Earth. Mount Everest is 8,849 meters. There are over 100 mountains and the base is 20,643 ft above sea level. Of the fifteen highest mountain peaks in the World, nine of them are contained within the Nepal Himalayas.

The word "Himalaya" means "House of Snow" in Sanskrit, an old Indian language. The Himalayas are so high that they kept the Indian and Chinese people separate from each other most of the time. In fact, India is a peninsula that is cut off from the rest of Asia by the mountains. India is often called a sub-continent because it has water on three sides and mountains on the fourth. 

North of the Himalayas is the Tibetan Plateau. It is called “the roof of the world”. However, the Tibetan Plateau is very dry because the plateau and the mountains act as a gigantic rain shadow.

Geologically, the origin of the Himalayas is the impact of the Indian tectonic plate. This travels northward at 15 cm per year, and joined the Eurasian continent about 40-50 million years ago. The formation of the Himalayas resulted in the lighter rock of the seabeds of that time being lifted up into mountains. An often-cited fact used to illustrate this process is that the summit of Mount Everest is made of marine limestone.

The Indian plate is still moving north at 67 mm per year. Over the next 10 million years it will travel about 1,500 km into Asia. About 20 mm per year of the India-Asia convergence is absorbed by thrusting along the Himalaya southern front. This leads to the Himalayas rising by about 5 mm per year, making them geologically active. The movement of the Indian plate into the Asian plate also leads to earthquakes from time to time.

The Himalayas is very popular for tourists because it has a lot of wild life. The types of plants and trees, which are common in the place, are Oak, Pine, Fir, Rhododendron, Birch, Juniper, and Deodar. Common animals, which are seen mostly in the different parts of the Himalayas, are snow leopard, blue sheep, musk deer, tigers, elephants, wild boar, and crocodiles. Even endangered species of animals and plants are also able to find there. In the north part of the Himalayas where the temperature falls below freezing point, animals cannot survive well. However, those who adapted can survive. During the cold winters most of the animals migrate to the lower regions of the Himalayas while others like the brown bear hibernate instead. The Yak is mostly seen in the cold desert. They are like wild ox and they are the largest animals in this region. In regions of Ladakh animals like Nyan, the wild and the most largest sheep are found.

Some of the major places for wildlife attractions in the Himalayas are:


The five main rivers of the Himalayas are the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas, and Sutlej. The rivers are the main source of human and animal life in those areas.

The river Jhelum came from a spring called Verinag, which is 80 km south of Srinagar. It is known world wide for its nine bridges. It is a very wide river and the water is quite muddy and dirty due to pollution etc.

The two rivers Chandra and Bhaga come together to form the Chenab River. The Chenab is in the Lahaul region of Himachal Pradesh. It came from the melted snow that was on the foot of the main range of Himalaya in the Spiti and Lahaul district. The lake of Chandra Tal also comes from these rivers.

This river has come out in many love legends. The town of Chamba is on a mountain shelf on the right bank of the river. The region is famous for handicrafts like embroidered handkerchiefs, silver and leather craft and woodcarving.

The valley of Kullu and Kangra is formed by river Beas. The main force of this river is from the south of Larji. There it enters the Mandi district and further still into Kangra. Its water increases to a great extent during the monsoon season so much so that it causes floods in the villages around it. The Pong Dam is made on the river to get hydroelectric power supply.

River Sutlej comes from the southern slopes of the mountain Kailash, near the lake of Mansarovar. It flows parallel to the Himalayas and in the end goes to the Shipki pass. It cuts through the Zanskar range, and makes a deep well part at the base of the Kinner Kailash.


</doc>
<doc id="14093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14093" title="Category:Africa">
Category:Africa


</doc>
<doc id="14112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14112" title="Template:Biology-stub">
Template:Biology-stub

<includeonly> </includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="14116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14116" title="Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport">
Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport

The BEST or the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport is Mumbai's public transport service and electricity provider. The government owned organisation, which was set up in 1873, operates one of India's largest bus fleets. Originally setup as a tramway company, it branched out into supplying electricity to the city in 1905, and later into operating buses in 1926. The BEST is run by the city's municipality as an autonomous body. 

The bus transport service covers almost the entire city and extends its operations outside city limits. In addition to buses, it also operates a ferry service. The electricity division of the organisation is also one of the few electricity departments in India to garner an annual net profit. Until 1995, BEST stood for Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport. After the name of the city was formally changed from Bombay to Mumbai, this was also reflected with the adjustment to Brihanmumbai, which means "Greater Mumbai".


</doc>
<doc id="14117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14117" title="Gelderland">
Gelderland

Gelderland is a province in the east of the Netherlands. The capital city is Arnhem, but Nijmegen and Apeldoorn are bigger. Other important cities are Zutphen, Doetinchem, Harderwijk and Tiel.

It is surrounded by the provinces of Limburg, North Brabant, South Holland, Utrecht, Flevoland and Overijssel and the German federal state North Rhine-Westphalia. 

The most important rivers are the Rhine ("Rijn"), the Waal, the IJssel and the Maas (border with North Brabant). The border with Flevoland is formed by the so-called "randmeer" ("border lake") of the Flevopolder. 

In the 11th century, Guelders was a county. It was called "Gelre" in Dutch and "Geldern" in German. In 1339, it became a duchy. At first, it existed of the surroundings of the city of Geldern (now in Germany). By the end of the 14th century, it included most of the modern province of Gelderland and parts of the province of Limburg and of the German District of Cleves. It became part of the Habsburg Netherlands in 1543, one of the Seventeen Provinces.

At this moment (2005), these are the municipalities in Gelderland:

Aalten | Apeldoorn | Arnhem | Barneveld | Berkelland | Beuningen | Bronckhorst | Brummen | Buren | Culemborg | Doesburg | Doetinchem | Druten | Duiven | Ede | Elburg | Epe | Ermelo | Geldermalsen | Groenlo | Groesbeek | Harderwijk | Hattem | Heerde | Heumen | Lingewaal | Lingewaard | Lochem | Maasdriel | Millingen aan de Rijn | Montferland | Neder-Betuwe | Neerijnen | Nijkerk | Nijmegen | Nunspeet | Oldebroek | Oude IJsselstreek | Overbetuwe | Putten | Renkum | Rheden | Rijnwaarden | Rozendaal | Scherpenzeel | Tiel | Ubbergen | Voorst | Wageningen | West Maas en Waal | Westervoort | Wijchen | 
Winterswijk | Zaltbommel | Zevenaar | Zutphen



</doc>
<doc id="14127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14127" title="Canvas">
Canvas

Canvas is a thick material usually made of woven cotton. It is used for tents and sails on boats and other places where a sturdy material would be good. It is similar to the material in blue jeans. It is often a white or pale tan color. It can also be used for painting or even making shoes.


</doc>
<doc id="14130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14130" title="Large format lens">
Large format lens

A Large format lens is a lens that can be used on a large format camera. These cameras usually cover an area of 4x5 inches or more. The picture taken is then recorded on photographic film, or as a digital image.



</doc>
<doc id="14132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14132" title="Ramones">
Ramones

The Ramones were an American punk rock group who formed in New York City in 1974 and broke up in 1996. All the members of the group had stage names which replaced their real last names with "Ramone." They were one of the first punk bands. Some others were The Clash, The Sex Pistols, and The Damned. Three of the four founding members of the Ramones died within eight years of the band breaking up.

The original lineup was made up of Joey on drums, Johnny on guitar and Dee Dee on bass and vocals. Tommy was their manager. Then Dee Dee said he was unable to sing while playing bass, so Tommy got Joey to sing and then played drums himself, leaving Dee Dee to backup sing. 

Their first album "Ramones" is now a classic of early punk rock. The songs are short, the melodies simple and the text is often made up of 2 or three phrases only. Their live concerts were legendary, extremely loud and very short. They played song after song, only interrupted by Dee Dee's "one, two three".

The Ramones never had big commercial success. Now they are seen as one of the most important punk rock bands. Bands like Nirvana (band) or Green Day were influenced by the Ramones.


</doc>
<doc id="14133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14133" title="Olivia Newton-John">
Olivia Newton-John

Olivia Newton-John (born 26 September 1948) is a British-born singer and actress. She is a four-time Grammy Award winner. She is an activist for environmental and animal rights issues.

Newton-John was born in Cambridge, England. She is the youngest of three children. In 1954, her family moved to Australia. At age 12, she won a contest at school with an all girl group "Sol Four". When she was 17 years old, she had her first appearance in a movie, "Funny Things Happen Down Under" (1965), where she sang "Christmas Time Down Under". Shortly after she was in a talent contest and won first prize, a trip to England. She got a record deal on Decca Records and released her first single, "Till You Say You'll Be Mine", in 1966.

Newton-John stayed in England and recorded a cover of the Bob Dylan song, "If Not For You". It was the song which first caused her to be well known. Her career did well and many big hits followed: "Let Me Be There", "If You Love Me Let Me Know," "I Honestly Love You", "Have You Never Been Mellow", "Please Mr. Please" and many more. In 1973, she played in "Comedy Comedy musical" suitcase. It was created by Swedish Radio, BBC, YLE and NRK. She started acting with John Travolta in the movie Grease. Travolta had wanted for her to be given the role. She had breast cancer in 1992, and recovered. She has been married twice. She has a daughter by her first husband. She released her first solo album, "If Not For You", in 1971. She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.


</doc>
<doc id="14134" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14134" title="Kansas (band)">
Kansas (band)

Kansas is a rock band. They formed in Topeka, Kansas in 1970. They are best known for songs including "Carry on Wayward Son" and "Dust in The Wind".



</doc>
<doc id="14135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14135" title="Styx (band)">
Styx (band)

Styx was an American rock band. They were one of the most popular groups of the 1970s and early 1980s. They formed in Chicago in 1970. They were the first band to have four platinum albums in a row. They still continue playing, after reuniting in 1990.






</doc>
<doc id="14136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14136" title="Jethro Tull (band)">
Jethro Tull (band)

Jethro Tull is a rock band. They formed in Blackpool, England in 1967. The singer and leader is Ian Anderson. He also plays flute. This band was highly successful and sung songs such as "Aqualung", "Locomotive Breath", "Living in the Past" and "Thick as a Brick".


</doc>
<doc id="14139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14139" title="Turtle">
Turtle

Turtles are the reptile order Testudines. They have a special bony or cartilaginous shell developed from their ribs that acts as a shield. 

The order Testudines includes both living and extinct species. The earliest fossil turtles date from about 220 million years ago. So turtles are one of the oldest surviving reptile groups and a more ancient group than lizards, snakes and crocodiles. 

Turtle have been very successful, and have an almost world-wide distribution. But, of the many species alive today, some are highly endangered.

Although the word turtle is widely used to describe all members of the order Testudines, it is also common to see certain members described as terrapins, tortoises or sea turtles, as well. How these names are used, if at all, depends on the type of English.
To avoid confusion, the word "chelonian" is popular among some who work with these animals, as a catch-all name. Unfortunately, "Chelonia" is the name of a particular genus of turtles, so this conflicts with its use as a general catch-all term for the order Testudines.

Although many turtles spend much of their lives underwater, all turtles and tortoises breathe air, and must surface at regular intervals to refill their lungs. They can also spend much of their lives on dry land. 

Aquatic respiration in Australian freshwater turtles is being studied. Some species have large cloacal cavities that are lined with many finger-like projections. These projections, called papillae, have a rich blood supply, and increase the surface area. The turtles can take up dissolved oxygen from the water using these papillae, in much the same way that fish use gills to respire.

Turtles lay eggs, like other reptiles, which are slightly soft and leathery. The eggs of the largest species are spherical, while the eggs of the rest are elongated. Sea turtles lay their eggs on dry, sandy beaches. Turtles can take many years to reach breeding age, and in many cases breed every few years rather than annually. 

In some species, there is temperature-dependent sex determination. Temperature determines whether an egg develops into a male or a female: a higher temperature causes a female, a lower temperature causes a male. Large numbers of eggs are deposited in holes dug into mud or sand. They are then covered and left to incubate by themselves. When the turtles hatch, they squirm their way to the surface and head toward the water. No turtle mother cares for its young.

Researchers have recently discovered a turtle’s organs do not gradually break down or become less efficient over time, unlike most other animals. It was found that the liver, lungs, and kidneys of a centenarian turtle are almost identical with that of its young counterpart. This has inspired genetic researchers to begin examining the turtle genome for longevity genes.

Turtles are divided into two groups, according to how they evolved a solution to the problem of withdrawing their necks into their shells: the Cryptodira, which can draw their necks in while contracting it under their spine; and the Pleurodira, which contract their necks to the side. This important adaptation evolved twice from ancestral turtles which did not have this ability.

Turtles have a hard beak. Turtles use their jaws to cut and chew food. Instead of teeth, the upper and lower jaws of the turtle are covered by horny ridges. Carnivorous turtles usually have knife-sharp ridges for slicing through their prey. Herbivorous turtles have serrated-edged ridges that help them cut through tough plants. Turtles use their tongues to swallow food, but they cannot, unlike most reptiles, stick out their tongues to catch food.

The upper shell of the turtle is called the carapace. The lower shell that encases the belly is called the plastron. The carapace and plastron are joined together on the turtle's sides by bony structures called "bridges". 

The inner layer of a turtle's shell is made up of about 60 bones. It include parts of the backbone and the ribs, meaning the turtle cannot crawl out of its shell. In most turtles, the outer layer of the shell is covered by horny scales called scutes that are part of its outer skin, or epidermis. Scutes are made up of a fibrous protein called keratin that also makes up the scales of other reptiles. These scutes overlap the seams between the shell bones and add strength to the shell. Some turtles do not have horny scutes. For example, the leatherback sea turtle and the soft-shelled turtles have shells covered with leathery skin instead.

The largest chelonian is a marine turtle, the great leatherback sea turtle, which reaches a shell length of 200 cm (80 inches) and can reach a weight of over 900 kg (2,000 lb, or 1 short ton). Freshwater turtles are generally smaller, but with the largest species, the Asian softshell turtle "Pelochelys cantorii", a few individuals have been reported to measure up to 200 cm or 80 in (Das, 1991). This dwarfs even the better-known alligator snapping turtle, the largest chelonian in North America, which attains a shell length of up to 80 cm (31½ in) and a weight of about 60 kg (170 lb).

The lagest fossil turtle, "Archelon", was more than twice the length of the leatherback, at up to 4.5 metres.

The first fossil proto-turtles come from Upper Triassic of the Mesozoic era, about 220 million years ago. Their shell evolved from bony extensions of their backbones and broad ribs that expanded and grew together to form a complete shell. It offered protection at every stage of its evolution, even when the bony component of the shell was not complete. This proved a long-lasting adaptation, and the group as a whole has survived many changes in the seas, and several extinction events.

Fossils of the freshwater "Odontochelys semitestacea" or "half-shelled turtle with teeth", from the later Triassic, have been found in southwest China. "Odontochelys" displays a complete bony plastron and an incomplete carapace, similar to an early stage of turtle embryonic development. By the Upper Jurassic, turtles had radiated widely, and their fossil history becomes easier to read.

Their exact ancestry has been a puzzle. Early amniotes had no openings in the skull behind the eyes. Openings developed in both Sauropsid and Synapsid skulls. They made the skull lighter, gave attachment points for muscles, and gave room for muscle bulges. But turtles do not have these skull openings. They were called 'anapsids', meaning 'no openings'.

Eventually it was suggested that turtles evolved from sauropsids which had skull openings, but turtles lost them as part of their evolution towards heavy defensive armour. All molecular studies have strongly upheld the placement of turtles within diapsids; some place turtles within Archosauria, or as a sister group to extant archosaurs.

The earliest known fully shelled turtles are the late Triassic "Odontochelys", "Chinlechelys" and "Proganochelys". The first-named genus was aquatic, but the second was probably terrestrial. They already had many advanced turtle traits, and thus probably had many millions of years of preceding turtle evolution and species in its ancestry. They did lack the ability to pull their heads into their shell (and they had a long neck), and ("Odontochelys") had a long, spiked tail ending in a club, a body form similar to that of ankylosaurs, resulting from convergent evolution.

Turtles are divided into two extant suborders, the Cryptodira and the Pleurodira. The Cryptodira is the larger of the two groups and includes all the marine turtles, the terrestrial tortoises, and many of the freshwater turtles. The Pleurodira are sometimes known as the side-necked turtles, a reference to the way they withdraw their heads into their shells. This smaller group consists primarily of various freshwater turtles.



</doc>
<doc id="14143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14143" title="Rage Against the Machine">
Rage Against the Machine

Rage Against the Machine, sometimes known as RATM or Rage, is a rock band from Los Angeles, California. Rage Against the Machine are known for their mixing of funk, hip-hop, metal and rock music as well as their openly left wing politics. The band members have been the same since they started in 1991. The band members are rapper Zack de la Rocha, guitarist Tom Morello, bass player Tim Commerford and drummer Brad Wilk. Morello, Commerford and Wilk were also in Audioslave with Chris Cornell.

RATM released their debut album in 1992. It was called "Rage Against the Machine". The album sold a lot of copies and reached number 40 on the Billboard top 200 music chart. The band did not do another album until "Evil Empire" in 1996. The bands third album "The Battle of Los Angeles" was released in 1999 and shortly after in 2000 the band released a covers album, "Renegades".


</doc>
<doc id="14145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14145" title="Category:Shapes">
Category:Shapes

Articles about shapes should be put in this category.


</doc>
<doc id="14150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14150" title="Category:2012">
Category:2012


</doc>
<doc id="14151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14151" title="Product (mathematics)">
Product (mathematics)

In mathematics, a product is a number or a quantity obtained by multiplying two or more numbers together. For example: 5 × 4 = 20. Here, the number 20 is called the product of 5 and 4. The product of 6 and 4 will be 24, because 6 × 4 = 24.

A short notation for long multiplication expressions is the product notation. It uses the capital Greek letter pi: formula_1. This works the same as the Sigma notation.

From the above equation we can see that "any" number with an exponent can be represented by a product, though it normally is not desirable.

Unlike summation, the sums of two terms cannot be separated into different sums. That is,
This can be thought of in terms of polynomials: you normally cannot separate terms inside them before they are raised to a power!


</doc>
<doc id="14153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14153" title="Template:Wikisource">
Template:Wikisource


</doc>
<doc id="14155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14155" title="Universal Declaration of Human Rights">
Universal Declaration of Human Rights

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a "declaration" (something said in an important way) by the United Nations General Assembly. It talks about basic human rights -- rights that all people have just because they are human. It was "adopted" (agreed to) by the United Nations General Assembly on December 10, 1948.

The UDHR (acronym for Universal Declaration of Human Rights) is translated into over 300 languages. This is more languages than any other document, according to the Guinness Book of World Records.

The UDHR may be broken into 30 parts or "articles". Each article says one idea about human rights. Most people think these are the most important ideas:


The UNHDR has been criticised by different people. Mainly Islamic countries have pointed out that its understanding is mainly that of Christians or Jews. Muslims could not implement certain parts of the declaration, without trespassing islamic law. On 30 June 2000, Muslim nations that are members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference officially resolved to support the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam, an alternative document that says people have "freedom and right to a dignified life in accordance with the Islamic Shari’ah".

Certain Libertarians have stated that some of the positive rights must be implemented by force: Few people will study for years, to become a doctor, if they cannot charge a fee for treating patients; but that patients expect to be treated for free.



</doc>
<doc id="14162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14162" title="Dolphin">
Dolphin

Dolphins are mammals from the order of "Cetacea", the Whales. They are animals that usually live in salt water, like the sea, but certain species can live in rivers.

The name "dolphin" is used for oceanic dolphins and river dolphins, but oceanic dolphins and river dolphins are not directly related.

Their name, dolphin, comes from the Ancient Greek δελφίς ("delphis") meaning "with a womb", because it was first thought to be a fish with a womb. It is now known to be very different from fish, because it breathes air and has warm blood, like all other mammals. They are believed to be almost as smart as a human.

Dolphins swim in ; a very large pod is called a "herd". They are very social and help one other fight off predators. Dolphins have fought off sharks in this way. They can kill large sharks by them over and over again with their pointed beaks and melons. They even "babysit" for the mothers that need to leave their calves to hunt for food.

Oceanic dolphins are marine animals living in the sea. They live in all of the oceans.

Three of the four species of river dolphins live in fresh water rivers. The La Plata Dolphin lives in saltwater estuaries and the ocean.

Water pollution and the loss of habitat are a threat to some dolphins, especially those living in rivers and estuaries.

People love dolphins because they are playful, intelligent, and seem to be smiling. Many stories told in both ancient and recent history talk about dolphins saving people from drowning at sea and bringing them safely to shore. Scientists are not sure whether dolphins do this because they actually want to save a person or because of instinct.

Scientists think dolphins save drowning people by instinct because if a dolphin behaves like it might be drowning, another dolphin will push it up to the surface of the water so it can breathe. An injured dolphin is helped onto the back of another dolphin and carried to where it is able to breathe and recover. Since dolphins do this to their drowning dolphin friends, it would seem natural that they would know how to save a drowning person as well.

"Some examples:"


The brain of a dolphin is like a human brain in size and development. Dolphins have good eyesight. They can watch a thing in the water, and they can see colors, too. They can also see in dark places. Dolphins breathe air. A dolphin's nose is on top of its head so the dolphin can easily breathe on the surface of the water. A dolphin's hearing is better than their sight.　 There are some small holes behind the eyes, and they are the ears of a dolphin. Dolphins can hear a sound underwater. They can know the direction of the sound very well. The skin of a dolphin has no scales. It is soft and smooth. However, it is very firm, due to how much muscle they have. Dolphins use echolocation to find their food. 

Dolphins do not sleep in a normal way. They have two sides of their brain, which they use to sleep. One side sleeps, while the other side stays awake. They will keep one eye open to watch for predators while they sleep.


</doc>
<doc id="14166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14166" title="Guinea">
Guinea

Guinea, or the Republic of Guinea (), is an independent nation in western Africa. They speak French. It's a member of Economic Community of West African States.

Guinea is divided into 7 regions and then divided even further into 33 prefectures. The capital of Guinea, Conakry, is a special area.


The following are the biggest cities in Guinea, by population:


The following is a list of notable people from Guinea:




</doc>
<doc id="14167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14167" title="Pig">
Pig

The domestic pig (or hog) is a farm animal. Baby pigs are called piglets. Pigs can be eaten for food as pork, ham, and bacon. The Jewish and Muslim religions, and some Christian denominations, teach that eating pork is wrong.

They are often pink, but small pigs kept as pets ("pot-bellied pigs") are often other colors. Pigs often roll in mud to protect themselves from sunlight. Many people think that pigs are dirty and smell. In fact, they roll around in the mud to keep parasitic animals (such as little bugs and ticks) away from their skin. This also helps to keep their skin moist and lower their body temperature on hot days. They are omnivores, which means they eat anything that comes in their way. Because their eyes are on the sides of their heads, pigs cannot look up to the sky.

Pigs are very intelligent animals. They can be taught to dance, race, pull carts and sniff out landmines. They can even be taught to play video games.

Pigs need a warm, clean area under a roof to sleep, and they shouldn't be too crowded. They need to be checked for sickness regularly. Stress can make them get sick more easily.

Pigs need lots of water. Over half their body weight is made up of water. Pigs should be given all the feed they will eat, which is usually 4 to 5 pounds a day for adult pigs. Corn is a good food for pigs, but they should also have protein supplements as well.

Pigs are often found on farms throughout the world and can be popular pets. A new breed of micro pigs has become very popular but often piglets are misold as micro pigs and then grow to be too big. In places pigs are mass farmed to produce the best animal for meat. These meat farms are often overcrowded with pigs and conditions are really bad.


</doc>
<doc id="14168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14168" title="Wheat">
Wheat

Wheat is a kind of plant. Its seeds are a type of cereal grain that people can eat. It is used to make many things, like bread and pasta, by first turning it into flour. It can also be fermented to make beer, alcohol, vodka, or biofuel. The grass plant comes from the Middle East. 

An allergy to wheat can cause coeliac disease, which makes the sufferer have diarrhoea if they eat any food containing wheat.

The wheat plant has long, slender leaves, stems that are hollow in most types of wheat plants, and heads that have many kinds of flowers, from 20 to 100. The flowers are grouped together in spikelets. Each spikelet has two to six flowers. In most spikelets, two or three of the flowers become fertilized, and this makes them produce the grains used for food.



</doc>
<doc id="14169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14169" title="Taliban">
Taliban

The Taliban is a hardline Islamic movement. It emerged in 1994 in Afghanistan and was sponsored by Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. During the Taliban's rule in Afghanistan (1996-2001), it enforced one of the most serious translations of Sharia law (Islamic) in Muslim World, but most of their criticism came from leading Muslim scholars. They became known internationally for their bad treatment of women. 

Following the September 11 attacks in 2001, the United States overthrew the Taliban government for refusing to hand over Osama bin Laden and several al-Qaida members, who were behind these attacks. Taliban is still active in parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan.


</doc>
<doc id="14170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14170" title="Screw">
Screw

A screw is a sharp piece of threaded metal similar to a nail. Unlike a nail, a screw has spiraling grooves down its spike. A screw is pressed down against wood and spun with a screwdriver so the wood goes into the grooves. This prevents the screw from falling out, as a nail could. Screws are basically divided into wood screws, machine screws and self-tapping screws. 

Machine screws have threads which have to be matched with nuts with female threads. Screws can be made of iron, steel, brass, bronze, etc.

Screw threads are measured either in millimeters or in numbers. screws are used in furniture, doors, appliances, mechanical applications etc.

Screwing is the neatest way of holding together to materials. If no glue is involved, then the screwing can be dismantled. Screwing can be used to connect all materials. 

These are three different types of screw. 

Do not place screws in line as this weakens the wood. 
Use the right size screwdriver for the screw head. A screwdriver that is too slim can damage the slot, too wide can tear the materials.



</doc>
<doc id="14171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14171" title="Tajikistan">
Tajikistan

Tajikistan is a country in South-central Asia.

Tajikistan is one of the new countries in the new block South-central Asia. It is west of China, north of Afghanistan and Pakistan, that is separated by a narrow 14 km strip of land in the Pamirs, east of Uzbekistan and south of Kyrgyzstan. 

Tajikistan is landlocked and it is in the middle of the continent of Asia.

Its total area is only about 143,100 km². It is slightly smaller than Wisconsin, USA. Tajikistan’s borders are 3,651 km long.

The climate has hot summers and mild winters. 

Almost all of the country (85 percent) is mountainous with river-valleys running across, however high altitude mountains of Pomir are in the eastern part of the country, (which is beginnings of Hymalayas in the west). The climate there is semiarid to polar. The mountains cover an area of about 120,000 km². There are other countries within the mountain range. The mountains are between 3600 to 4400m high.

The land that is now Tajikistan has been lived in since 4,000 BC. It has been under the rule of various empires throughout history, mostly the Persian Empires. 

In the year 800, Islam came to Tajikistan. 

In 1868, Tajikistan became a Russian Colony. It later became a part of the Soviet Union .

On 9 September 1991, after long periods of mass protests against Soviet Government, Parliament of Tajikistan declared independence from Soviet Union, and held first presidential elections. 
Rahmon Nabiev who run the country during Soviet Union in the late 1970s and early 1980s, become president. He was unable to bring any much needed reforms to the country, and so there were protests in the capital city, Dushanbe. 
The government responded by organising a pro-government demonstration, mainly made of old Communist Party members and people from the southeast of the country brought to the city. Anti-government protests did not stop, so the government gave weapons to the pro-government demonstrator. Then the Opposition armed themselves.

After this bloody civil war broke out. In which all of the new democratic parties, political organisations and movements together with the political Islamic movements created an alliance, opposing the old communist government and southerners.

After the September 11, 2001 attacks, many American and French Soldiers came into the country.

Tajikistan is a republic. The capital city is Dushanbe. The official language is Tajik,which is a dialect of farsi (Persian). 

Tajikistan is also a member of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the CIS. Tajikistan is number eight in size of the CIS.


</doc>
<doc id="14172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14172" title="Fear">
Fear

Fear is an emotion similar to anxiety. A person who fears something does not want it to happen, because they think something bad will happen to them if it does. Fear is the body's way of protecting itself from possibly dangerous situations. For example, if one has a fear of jumping off the cliff, he/she will not do it. This actually saves one from death. In this case, fear is a good thing but in others, it can be bad. An example of fear being bad is if it prevents one from doing something important like going to see a doctor.


</doc>
<doc id="14173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14173" title="Tongue">
Tongue

The tongue is the fleshy muscle inside the mouth. A tongue lets us taste because the top of the tongue is made mostly of taste buds. It is very flexible, so it also helps us eat and talk. 

Some people can roll their tongue into a tube. The reason why some people are able to and some are not is because of genetic inheritance, meaning that it is based on whether their parents are able to do it. Many schools use tongue rolling as an example of a genetic trait.

People who can roll their tongue can sometimes make a high pitched sound by blowing through their rolled tongue.


</doc>
<doc id="14174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14174" title="Titanium">
Titanium

Titanium is a very strong metal. It's one of hundreds of chemical elements in the peoriodic table of the elements. Its symbol is "Ti", and it is used in making the strongest and lightest parts of modern fighter jet planes. It does not corrode, including resistance to sea water and chlorine.


</doc>
<doc id="14175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14175" title="Hebrew language">
Hebrew language

The Hebrew language is a Semitic language. It is the language of Israel.

The language was spoken by Israelites a long time ago - during the time of the Bible. After Judah was conquered by Babylonia, the Jews were taken captive to Babylon and started speaking Aramaic. Hebrew was no longer used as much in day-to-day life, but it was still known by Jews who studied religious books. 

In the 20th century, many Jews decided to make Hebrew into a spoken language again. It became the language of the new country of Israel in 1948. People in Israel came from many places, and decided to learn Hebrew so they could all speak one language.

Hebrew is close to the Arabic language.
Hebrew words are made by combining a root with a pattern. In Israeli Hebrew, some words are translated from European languages like English, French, German, and Russian. Many words from the Old Testament were given new meanings in Israeli Hebrew. People learning Hebrew need to study the grammar first in order to read correctly without vowels. In Israeli Hebrew, there is no verb "to be" in the present tense, only in the future and the past tenses. In Biblical Hebrew, there are no tenses but only two "aspects": "imperfect" and "perfect". The "imperfect" is something like the future and the present tenses. The "perfect" is something like the past tense. "Mishnaic Hebrew" is the Hebrew spoken as well as Judeo-Aramaic in the time of Jesus and in the time of the Bar-Kokhba revolt (2nd century AD), until the Byzantine Empire of Justinian (6th century AD).

The Hebrew alphabet has 1 letters. Five of these letters change when they are at the end of a word. The Hebrew language is read from right to left.


</doc>
<doc id="14179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14179" title="Joan of Arc">
Joan of Arc

Saint Joan of Arc or The Maid of Orléans (, IPA ʒan daʁk; ca. 1412 – 30 May 1431) is a national heroine of France. She is also a Catholic saint. She was a peasant girl born in the east of France. She led the French army to several important victories in the Hundred Years' War. She said that God was helping her. She also helped Charles VII to be crowned king. She was taken by the Burgundians, sold to the English people, tried by an ecclesiastical court, and burned at the stake when she was 19 years old.

24 years later, Pope Callixtus III looked over what the ecclesiastical court had decided. He found her innocent, and said she was a martyr. She was beatified in 1909 and canonized in 1920. She is one of the patron saints of France.

Joan said that she had visions from God. In these visions, she said, God told her to take back her homeland from English rule late in the Hundred Years' War. Many quick victories made her famous.

Joan of Arc has remained an important figure in Western civilization. Famous writers like Shakespeare, Tchaikovsky, Mark Twain, and Voltaire wrote about her. She still comes out in video games, television, movies, songs, and dances.

When Joan of Arc was put on trial, she said no to the customary courtroom rules about a witness's . She said she would not answer every question about her visions. She complained that the normal witness oath would not be right because she had an oath that she had given to the king. It is not known how much the record which reports this has been changed by dishonest court officials or her possible lies to protect state secrets. Some historians simply say that her belief in her duty was more important than where the visions came from.

Most people say that she was healthy and that she was not crazy. Recently, people have tried to explain her visions through things like epilepsy, migraine, tuberculosis, and schizophrenia. None of these guesses have been greatly supported. This is because, even though seeing visions can be through different diseases, other facts of Joan's life do not agree with these ideas. Two experts who studied a teberculoma hypothesis in the medical journal "Neuropsychobiology"said: "It is difficult to draw final conclusions, but it would seem unlikely that widespread tuberculosis, a serious disease, was present in this 'patient' whose life-style and activities would surely have been impossible had such a serious disease been present." Ralph Hoffman, professor of psychology at Yale University, points out that visions, like ""hearing voices"" are not always signs of mental illness. He says that her religious inspiration was possibly a reason. However, he does not say any other reasons.

Actually, the court of Charles VII was very careful about mental health.

The Church said Joan should be killed for wearing men's clothes even after being warned not to. Joan agreed to wear women's clothes. She wore male clothes again. This might have been to protect herself from being attacked. It could also have been, as Jean Massieu said, because her dress had been stolen and she was left with nothing else to wear.

People say she was burned on a stake on 30 May 1431. After she died, the English showed people her burnt body so no one could say she had escaped alive. Then they burned the body two times again to turn it into ashes. They put what was left of her in the Seine. The executioner, Geoffroy Therage, later said that he "...greatly feared to be damned."




</doc>
<doc id="14181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14181" title="James Kopp">
James Kopp

James Charles Kopp (born August 2, 1954) is an American criminal. He was found guilty in 2005 for shooting Dr. Barnett Slepian to death in 1988. Kopp said the reason he shot the doctor was that he was against the abortions that the doctor did.

On October 23, 1998, Slepian, his wife, and their four children came home from synagogue (Jewish church). Kopp waited outside the home with a rifle. He shot Slepian in the back through a window while Slepian was in the kitchen. Slepian's wife and son Andrew were standing in the same room with him.


</doc>
<doc id="14182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14182" title="Millet">
Millet

Millet is a type of grain that is eaten. There are many types of millet.
Millets is a great part of nutrition; it includes three grams of protein per half serving and one gram of fiber per half serving. .6 miligrams is the amount of iron included in each half serving of millet.


</doc>
<doc id="14183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14183" title="The Flowers of Romance">
The Flowers of Romance

The Flowers of Romance is both the name of a band as well as a sound recording:


</doc>
<doc id="14185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14185" title="Sonic the Hedgehog">
Sonic the Hedgehog

Sonic the Hedgehog is a video game character. He is a 15 year old blue hedgehog who can run at the speed of sound. By curling into a ball and spinning quickly, he can do a helpful "Spin Attack" which he uses to defeat the bad guys and save the day. Because he is very fast, he hates waiting, and he can be a bit rude, but he does care about his friends and really hates evil. He has been in many games made by the company Sega, but also in television series, books and comics (published in America by Archie Comics). He has many friends, including Miles "Tails" Prower, a two-tailed fox that can fly by spinning his tails very quickly or Knuckles the Echidna (who is strong, and has been in Sonic games since "Sonic the Hedgehog 3"). With them, he fights against Doctor Eggman, an evil scientist who tries to take over the world. Doctor Eggman was also called Doctor Robotnik in America for some time until it was changed to Eggman to match what he was called in Japan.

Sonic is the mascot of Sega, which created it in the early 1990s. At first, Sega wanted Doctor Eggman to be their mascot, and a good guy. But, the people in Sega liked the new idea of making a blue hedgehog as the mascot. Doctor Eggman settled as the bad guy instead.

Here is a list of some games Sonic is in:

He appeared in his own made-for-video movie in 1999.
In most of the cartoons from the 1990s his voice was provided by Jaleel White (who was best known at the time for his role as Steve Urkel on the television show "Family Matters") and in later cartoons his voice was provided by Jason Griffith. Sonic also stars in his latest cartoon from Japan. It is called "Sonic X", although Sonic X has ended.

Here is a list of cartoons Sonic is in:

Archie Comics in America has been making comics with Sonic as the main character. He is also shown with famous characters like Knuckles and Tails, but with also a few new ones. Some of the characters are not in any Sonic games, but some are in a very old cartoon, "Sonic the Hedgehog SATAM", made by DiC in 1993.



Super Sonic is actually Sonic himself. As Super Sonic, Sonic is faster and stronger, and he is gold in color. He becomes Super Sonic only if he finds all seven Chaos Emeralds and, in the old games, collects 50 gold rings. He was first shown in "Sonic the Hedgehog 2".






</doc>
<doc id="14186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14186" title="Hedgehog">
Hedgehog

A hedgehog, also called an urchin, hedgepig and furze-pig, is a small mammal. It has spines on its back. There are hedgehogs in Europe, Asia, Africa, and New Zealand. When attacked or threatened, it curls into a ball. Hedgehogs eat insects, snails, frogs and toads, snakes, bird eggs, carrion, mushrooms, berries, melons and watermelons. Sometimes, hedgehogs will search for earthworms, after rainstorms.

Hedgehogs have long spines, or quills, made of keratin. They do not come off easily, unlike porcupines, but baby quills do drop off while adult quills grow. This is called "quilling". When they are very stressed or sick, their quills can fall off, too. Their quills are not poisonous.



</doc>
<doc id="14187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14187" title="Final Fantasy">
Final Fantasy

Final Fantasy is a fantasy role-playing video game series made by Square Enix since 1987.

There are two main types of "Final Fantasy" game: the main series, where the games are just numbered with Roman numbers, and several related games and spinoffs. Each game in the main series except "Final Fantasy X" and "X-2" have very little to do with each other, with its own setting, story, and characters. But the games are connected through the gameplay, themes, and 'style'. Newer sequels and prequels are "Final Fantasy X-2" and the "Compilation of Final Fantasy VII" games and films.

Since 1987, more than seventeen games have been released. The series started on Nintendo Entertainment System, but today most "Final Fantasy" games are made for the Sony PlayStation or PlayStation 2. Games have also been released for the Nintendo Game Boy and GameCube. "Final Fantasy VII" is generally regarded as one of the pinnacle achievements of gaming. A must-play for any gamer.

In 2001, Columbia Pictures made a CGI movie called "".

While it is not actually a "Final Fantasy" game, one game called "Final Fantasy Adventure" was released in America for the Nintendo Game Boy. The game was actually a prequel to the SNES game "Secret of Mana", but was released in the United States with the name "Final Fantasy" to boost sales. In 2003 it was remade for the Game Boy Advance with the title "Sword of Mana". In Japan, the Mana series is called "Seiken Densetsu", which means "Legend of the Sword." There are three games in the series, but only the first two, "Secret of Mana" and "Sword of Mana", have been released in the United States.

Most "Final Fantasy" games are based on leading a team of characters which each have special skills, and fighting lots of monsters to beat the game. Most "Final Fantasy" games also have interesting storylines.

For Nintendo Entertainment System:

For Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES):

For Sony PlayStation:

For Sony PlayStation 2:

For PlayStation 3:

For Xbox 360:

For Nintendo Gameboy:

For Nintendo Gameboy Advance

For Nintendo GameCube:

For Nintendo Wii:

For Nintendo DS:

For PlayStation Portable:

For PC:


A list of Future Final Fantasy games. 



</doc>
<doc id="14188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14188" title="Georges Brassens">
Georges Brassens

Georges Brassens (October 22, 1921 - October 29, 1981) was a French singer and songwriter. He sang "La mauvaise réputation" (the bad reputation) and "Le gorille" (the gorilla).


</doc>
<doc id="14189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14189" title="Display resolution">
Display resolution

Resolution is what can qualify a monitor in computer science. It is the number of pixels displayed on a given surface.

For example: a "640 by 480 display", which has 640 pixels from side to side and 480 from top to bottom (as in a VGA display), and therefore has a total number of 640 × 480 = 307,200 pixels or 0.3 megapixels, is what is meant by 640 × 480 display resolution.



</doc>
<doc id="14190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14190" title="Cervix">
Cervix

The cervix is the part of the uterus which protrudes into the vaginal canal. Its function is like that of a gate to the uterus, or womb, where the fetus develops. It also allows menstrual blood to escape the uterus during the normal reproductive cycle of the female, and allows sperm to access the uterus to fertilize an ovum, or egg.


</doc>
<doc id="14191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14191" title="Bullet">
Bullet

Bullets are small metal objects fired from guns. Many kinds of bullets are made from lead covered with copper. They are put into a package called a cartridge. The cartridge is put into a gun. The bullet is at the front of the cartridge (number 1 in the picture). The bullet is pushed out of the gun by hot gases at a high pressure. A powder called gunpowder (number 3 in the picture) is put inside the case (number 2). A small explosion from the primer (number 5 in the picture) lights the gunpowder. The gunpowder burns very fast. It makes hot gases. The hot gases are at a high pressure. The high pressure pushes the bullet out of the gun barrel at a high speed. Bullets have many uses. They are used as a weapon in war. They are used by police. They are used for self-defense. They are used for hunting animals for food or as a sport. They are used for shooting targets. There are many kinds of bullets. Each gun takes a certain size, or caliber, of bullet. Rifles and handguns use different kinds of bullets. 

Bullet designs have to solve two main problems. A bullet must fit tightly in the gun's bore (inside of the barrel). If it does not fit tightly, gas from the burning gunpowder leaks past the bullet and does not help push it out. The bullet must also fit tightly against the rifling (spiral marks on barrel), but not so tightly that it causes damage. Bullets must have this tight fit without causing too much friction. Bullets must be made to a high standard. Poorly made bullets may not be accurate. Poorly made bullets can damage the gun or hurt the person using the gun. The way the bullet behaves in the barrel is called 'internal ballistics'.

The laws of physics can be used to understand how a bullet moves after it leaves the barrel. The way the bullet behaves after it leaves the barrel is called 'external ballistics'. The main factors affecting the aerodynamics of a bullet in flight are the bullet's shape and the rotation from the rifling of the gun barrel. Spinning helps stabilize the bullet gyroscopically and aerodynamically (spinning keeps it on track). Any small differences in the shape of the bullet are mostly canceled as it spins. The first guns did not have rifling. With smooth-bore firearms (no rifling), a round bullet was best because it was the same in any position. But these bullets were not very stable. They were also not very accurate. Still, the round shape of bullets did not change very much for hundreds of years. 

Bullet design also affects what happens when a bullet hits an object. The way a bullet behaves when it hits a target is called 'terminal ballistics.' The make-up and density of the target material, the angle at which the bullet hits, and the speed and design of the bullet itself are all factors. Bullets are usually made to go into a target, change shape, and/or break apart. For a given material and bullet, the speed of the bullet is the main factor determining what happens. 

Making bullets go faster increases the kinetic energy even more. This effect is big, so people have tried (and succeeded) to make bullets that go faster and weigh less. Modern firearms take much lighter bullets and shoot them much faster than was the case in World War I. This makes the firearms better in two ways. The magazine (which holds the cartridges in the gun before they are fired) holds more of the smaller, lighter bullets. Also, the higher speed causes much more damage than the old-style bullets.

 Rifles are used for target shooting and killing. A rifle bullet can be described by its accuracy, penetration, shape, size, and mass (weight). There are many different kinds of rifle bullets. 

The Full Metal Jacket (FMJ) is a type of bullet commonly used by the military. A lead center (core) is surrounded by a strong metal coating (jacket). This jacket is usually made of a copper alloy, but sometimes it is made of steel. The FMJ does not spread out when it hits a target. It goes deep into its target and is a general-purpose bullet. The FMJ is not recommended for hunting. It is mostly for target shooting and military use. 

The Jacketed Hollow Point (JHP) has a lead center (core) with lead showing at the tip. It also has a strong metal coating (jacket). The center of the tip has a hole in it (hollow point). This design makes the tip of the JHP quickly start to spread out (expand) when it hits a target. The hollow point bullet in a rifle can be as small as a pin. When the hollow point is this small, the bullet will go faster and still spread out when it hits a living target. In some hollow point rifle bullets, the front may spread out to two times as wide as the bullet was when it started. It is a good hunting bullet because the energy in the bullet is transferred to the target at a known depth. The jacketed hollow point tends to be accurate and is sturdy.
The plastic tipped bullet is a hollow point bullet. The hollow point is filled with a hard, pointed plastic tip. It is used because it can go further than the JHP and does not curve as much. The plastic tipped bullet also spreads out or breaks into pieces when it hits the target.

A solid copper bullet is a bullet that has no lead core or other elements than copper. This bullet expands into a flower shape when it hits a target, because copper bullets are usually hollow point. The copper bullet contains no lead, so it is also better for the environment. In rifles, it is widely used for hunting and other sports.

A frangible bullet will break into many pieces upon contact with any material harder than itself. This bullet is used for safety while shooting. It has little impact on the environment. It also makes the objects behind the intended target a little safer.

 Handguns are mostly used for sport target shooting or self defense. Police use the pistol because an officer can easily carry it and have it ready to use. 

Pistol bullets have some of the same names as rifle bullets, such as full metal jacket (FMJ) or jacketed hollow point (JHP). For example, there are hollow point pistol bullets that also spread out a lot when they hit a target. However, in a pistol bullet, the hollow point can be much larger. The hollow point causes the pistol bullet to slow down faster due to air resistance. However, a pistol bullet does not have to travel as far as a rifle bullet. The hollow point in a pistol bullet can be almost as wide as the bullet. When a hollow point pistol bullet hits a target, it almost completely flattens itself. A solid copper pistol bullet is usually hollow point, and is mainly used for self defense and/or target shooting.

A flat nosed bullet is mostly used in handguns, although there are also some rifle bullets called flat nosed. The flat nose on a pistol bullet can be as wide as the bullet. The "flat nose" on a rifle bullet may be much smaller. The flat nosed bullet tends to have a low ballistic coefficient. This means that it slows down faster than pointed bullets. Flat nosed bullets are sometimes used to prevent the explosion of the next cartridge in a magazine when the gun recoils. Flat nosed bullets also spread out quickly when they hit a target. This makes them useful for fighting at close range when the bullet should not hit what is behind the target. After hitting the target, it becomes almost inside out. 

A frangible pistol bullet will break apart on contact. It is usually made of a copper jacket over pieces of either round or twisted lead pieces that are glued together. The glue breaks apart when the bullet hits the target. The pieces spread out. This creates a larger surface area. This kind of bullet cannot go deep into a target. It is safer to use when it is important not to hit anything on the other side of the target.

µhttp://www.arizonagunlist.com/ammunition_types.html§

µhttp://www.midwayusa.com/content/legacy/bullet_composition.htm§

http://www.rathcoombe.net/sci-tech/ballistics/methods.html

</doc>
<doc id="14192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14192" title="Frankfort, Kentucky">
Frankfort, Kentucky

Frankfort is the capital city of the U.S. state of Kentucky. It has been the state capital since December 8, 1792. It is the county seat of Franklin County, and has been since 1795.

Frankfort is beside the Kentucky River. This is how the city earned its name, because the land was owned by pioneer Stephen Frank. First called "Frank's Ford", the name was soon shortened to Frankfort.

Within a century the population of Frankfort grew from 9,487 in 1900, to 27,741 in 2000. The members of the city commission and the mayor are elected by the citizens.

The mayor of Frankfort in 2006 is William May. 



</doc>
<doc id="14193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14193" title="Shahrukh Khan">
Shahrukh Khan

Shahrukh Khan (born 2 November 1965) is a Bollywood Indian actor. He was born in New Delhi, his grandparents having moved there from Afghanistan and Peshawar. He started his career appearing on television in the late 1980s. He is Muslim and studied in a Muslim school. He is married to Gauri, a Hindu and has two children; Aryan and Suhana. He also has a sister named Shehnaz Lalarukh. He has a master's degree. He is one of the biggest stars in "Bollywood".


</doc>
<doc id="14194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14194" title="Category:Long words">
Category:Long words

The English language has some very long words. Some of these are listed below.


</doc>
<doc id="14195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14195" title="Masashi Tashiro">
Masashi Tashiro

Masashi Tashiro (田代まさし, born August 31, 1956 in Saga Prefecture) is a former Japanese television performer and member of Japanese musical group Rats & Star. He was brought up in Shinjuku, Tokyo. On December 21, 2001, Tashiro was the first Japanese person chosen by the American magazine "Time" as "Person of the Year".

Tashiro was fired from the entertainment world in 2001 because of scandals. 


</doc>
<doc id="14199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14199" title="New Orleans, Louisiana">
New Orleans, Louisiana

New Orleans is a city in the state of Louisiana in the United States of America. 

The city was first built by the French before it became a territory of the United States when President Thomas Jefferson bought the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. It was built at the mouth of the Mississippi River. It has been one of the World's greatest seaport cities for many years. The French located the city a short vertical distance above sea level. In the last three hundred years, the city has sunk slowly into the marshy soil. Large portions of New Orleans are now below sea level. A system of many pumps, dikes, seawall, and levees was built. 

Over half of the grain that is sent by ship to other countries, comes first by barge through the Port of New Orleans. The grains are grown in the farming states bordering the Mississippi River, the Missouri River, and Ohio Rivers. Much of the crude oil that is made into gasoline and diesel fuel is brought to New Orleans for refining oil refinery and distribution to other parts of the United States by barge or oil pipeline. Also, there are many oil well platforms nearby, in the Gulf of Mexico.

On August 29, 2005, New Orleans was hit by Hurricane Katrina which destroyed over 80% of the city when the cities levees broke. The nation's weather services forecast storms by following changes in this pressure. Their work is often very accurate. In this storm, people knew several days before the storm that it would be very dangerous and very close to New Orleans. The very low pressure gave the storm unusual strength. The special systems built to protect this under water city failed in several ways. Water came over the dikes, seawalls, and levees at six places. The engines on the pumps failed as the water rose above them. It is estimated that more than three quarters (3/4) of New Orleans was under water in early September of 2005. The very deep water caused failure of sewer, phone, electric and fresh water systems. Many people drowned. Many homes were completely covered with water. Many important records, some from the French period of the 1700s were destroyed.

Many people believed that a flood in New Orleans would happen. They spoke openly about this concern for many years. A very serious flood happened several hundred miles upstream, on the Mississippi River, when heavy rains fell in 1927. The severe hardships from this flood led many people to move away. Many moved to Chicago.

After Hurricane Katrina, many people who lived in the flooded city moved to other places in the US. Many people were afraid to move back. Their jobs and homes were gone and their possessions were lost. The people who could move back spread to many other states. Texas is the largest state and has received the most flood victims. Many volunteers and charities are helping the flood victims to relocate to new homes and, at the same time, repair homes and services in this city.

Several years after Katrina, New Orleans still had much fewer people than it did before the hurricane.


</doc>
<doc id="14201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14201" title="Mamluk">
Mamluk

Mamluks are members of a military caste that controlled Egypt from 1254 to 1811. The caste was first made up of slaves. 


</doc>
<doc id="14204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14204" title="Laurent Clerc">
Laurent Clerc

Laurent Clerc, born Louis Laurent Marie Clerc, (December 26, 1785 in France - July 18, 1869) co-founded the first school for the deaf (people who cannot hear) in the United States.

Deaf people in America respected Clerc and call him the "Father of the Deaf" because he founded the first school for the deaf in America in Hartford, Connecticut. Clerc and Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet founded that school on April 15, 1817 in an old hotel. The school moved to its present location in 1821 and is now named The American School for the Deaf. The American School for the Deaf is the oldest school for the deaf in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="14207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14207" title="Ivory">
Ivory

Ivory is a hard white material made from the tusks and teeth of animals such as elephants, hippopotamuses and walruses. Ivory is now very rare and expensive since there are restrictions on hunting elephants for ivory. There are also laws against the trade of ivory. Some countries (including Zimbabwe and South Africa) argue that these laws should be removed or changed, to allow them to sell some ivory. 

Ivory has been used to make piano keys, billiard balls, handles and small ornaments. Ivory has been used in artworks, such as carvings, since ancient times. 


</doc>
<doc id="14212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14212" title="Political subdivisions of Brazil">
Political subdivisions of Brazil

Brazil is subdivided into 26 states and 1 Federal District (the capital city Brasília).







</doc>
<doc id="14213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14213" title="Vice president">
Vice president

A vice president is someone who helps the president conduct his duties. A vice president also takes over if the president is no longer able to conduct his or her duties.
In the United States, the current Vice President is Joe Biden.


</doc>
<doc id="14214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14214" title="Triple jump">
Triple jump

The triple jump (also known in certain countries as a hop, step and jump or a hop, skip and jump) is a athletics event. It has been a part of the World Championships since 1896. The event consists of someone running up to a line, jumping and landing on the same foot (a "hop"), jumping onto the other foot (a "skip") and then jumping into a shallow "pit" of sand. The person whose final jump lands the farthest from the line they started jumping at wins.



</doc>
<doc id="14218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14218" title="Texas hold 'em">
Texas hold 'em

Texas hold'em is a popular version of the card game poker. 

Before any cards are dealt, two players to the left of the dealer make bets which are called the "Small Blind" and "Big Blind". These forced bets must be at least matched by the other players in order to keep their hands. The big blind is twice as much as the small blind. If the big blind was $1000, then it is said that the blinds are 500 and 1000. This money is put into a place in the center of the table that is called the "pot"

Each player is given two cards face down. These are called the player's "Hole Cards" or what the player has "in the hole". Once all the players have their hole cards, the betting starts. The player to the left of the Big Blind player starts the betting. The lowest amount that can be bet is the amount of the big blind. Players can bet more than the minimum. This is called "Raising". The amount a player can raise is determined by the type of the game being played (see below) If a player raises, the amount he raised the bet to is the new minimum. Each player in turn may either "Call" (pay the current bet amount), Raise, or "Fold" (quit the hand). This action keeps going around the table until each player has called or folded his hand.

After the first turn of betting is over, the dealer lays three cards face up on the table. This is called the "Flop". These three cards are "community cards". This means they are used by every player in the game along with the two hole cards each player has. After the flop, another turn of betting takes place. There is no starting bet in this turn (no blinds) unless a player makes a bet. Players may "Check" or bet nothing if no player before them in the turn has bet. If everyone checks, or if a player bets and all the others call or fold, then the round of betting is over.

Next the dealer lays another community card face up. This card is called "the turn" (or 4th Street). Another series of betting comes after this. This betting is the same as after the Flop.

Finally the dealer lays the last community card known as "the river" (or 5th Street). This card is again followed by a turn of betting, calling and folding by the players. 

With the five community cards and their two hole cards, each player makes the best 5 card poker hand he can. The player with the best poker hand wins the round and the pot. If two or more players have the same hand, those players split the pot evenly. If one person bets and all other players have folded, the hand ends then and that player wins.

Texas Hold'em can be played several ways, including Limit, Pot Limit and No Limit games. The version of the game usually is the maximum a player can raise at any one time.

Limit games have a set amount that a player can raise at any time. If a game has a $10 limit, then a raise must be exactly $10. If more than one person raises, each one can only raise $10 more than the last raise. Typically, there is a "cap" of 3 raises per round. Also, when playing limit, the bet and raise amount will usually double for the turn and river betting rounds.

In a 4 player game, Player A bets $10. Player B raises $10 (puts in $20 total), Player C calls Player B (puts in $20). Player D at this point can either fold, pay $20 (call player B) or raise $10 to a total of $30. Player A would go next and either call (paying the difference between his $10 bet and the current bet). This would continue until all players either call or fold.

In Pot Limit games, the most a player can bet or raise is the total amount in the pot. With each bet or raise, the amount in the pot gets larger. This allows for larger raises. 

In Spread Limit games, there is both a minimum and a maximum raise specified. For example, one could play $5-$50 spread limit. The big blind would be $5 and the minimum raise would be $5 and the maximum raise would be $50.

In No Limit, there is not a limit of how much can be bet at any time. That is, it is just like Spread Limit, but with no maximum. A player can bet up to all money as he has. If a player bets all of his money, he is said to be "All In". If a player bets more money than another player has, the second player can call by going All In. If only those two players stay in the hand (all other players fold), the first player takes back any money that is over the amount the player going All In has. At this point, all betting stops and the dealer deals out the rest of the cards.

If a player goes All In and two or more players are still betting, the other betters can raise each other until they both call (or one of them also goes All In). A "side pot" is made in this case. It is the difference between the final bet and the first person's All In. Only the two players were not All In can win this pot. If the All In player wins the hand, he wins the main pot (his money plus an equal amount from each other player) and which ever of the other two players had the better hand wins the side pot. In an eight player game, it is possible to have several side pots with several people being All In at the same time. If there are not two player left who can bet, betting stops and all players turn their hands over. 
Player A bets $5000. Player B only has $3000. He goes All In. Player C Raises $2000 (puts in a total of $7000). Player A calls (puts in $2000). At this point, the main pot is worth $9000 ($3000 from each player). The side pot is worth $8000 ($7000 - $3000 from Players A and B)

If player A or C wins, he wins both the main pot and the side pot ($17,000) and Player B is out of the game since he is out of money. If player B wins, he wins the main pot and the side pot goes to which ever player has the best hand between players A and C.

Tournaments are what people often see when poker is shown on television. When a player enters a tournament, he pays an entry fee called the "buy-in." Most of his buy-in is placed with other player's money in the prize pool. Usually, a small portion of the buy-in is kept by the tournament officials for their expenses (and profit). The player is given a table and seat assignment, and a certain number of chips - the same amount as every other player. Unlike normal chips, these tournament chips have no cash value (though they often are referred to with dollar amounts). Players must continue to play until they run out of chips. The tournament continues until one player has accumulated all of the chips. The order in which people lose all their chips (or "bust out"), is their finishing order. That is, the last player to bust out is the second-place finisher. The prize pool is divided amongst a fraction of the top finishers (usually about 10%). The first place winner usually gets a much larger share, with the prizes diminishing until the prize pool is empty. The player who was the last player to finish without winning any prize is said to have finished "on the bubble."

As players bust out of the tournament, the average player's chip stack gets larger. In order to insure that the blinds do not become insignificant in the face of the growth in chip stacks, tournaments are played in timed "rounds." At the beginning of each round typically the blinds increase. Every few rounds there will be a short break between rounds. For tournaments that last longer than a day, there will be a last level for the day, and the tournament will resume the next day.

Most tournaments only allow a player to buy-in and receive chips once, at the beginning. These are called "freeze out" tournaments. Some tournaments allow players to buy-in more than once for the first few levels of the tournament. These players are said to "re-buy" and the money they use to re-buy goes into the prize pool with the rest of the buy-ins.



</doc>
<doc id="14220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14220" title="Creationism">
Creationism

Creationism is the belief that the universe was created in the way described in religious texts. According to Creationism, a creator god directly created life from the nothingness that was before, or he did so by ordering the chaos that was before his intervention. The first approach is known as creatio ex nihilo, which is the Latin name for "creation from nothing". Creationism as it is known today started in the 19th century in Protestantism. At the time, scientists started to research about the Geologic time scale, and put forward theories about how life came to be. One such theory is called evolution. 

At the time, fundamentalist and evangelical movements in Christianity who were opposed to these theories started Creationism. In the 20th century, creationist movements also started in Islam and Judaism.
Creationists usually do not believe that all of today's living things came about from simple organisms changing slowly over time. They believe that life was created much as it is today, and that one form of life cannot change into another. There are things that seem to suggest evolution, such as fossils, the remains of living things that died long ago. Older living things seen in fossils are different from the life we see today, and can be put into order to show changes over time. Creationists say that this and other things are not enough and argue that virtually every living thing that has a fossil counterpart is practically identical to it. They also argue that the order is arbitrary because there is no place on earth where the rock layers are completely intact. 

Some people do not believe their religious book to be word-for-word true, and say God used evolution to create mankind and other life. This idea is called theistic evolution. Others believe that evolution alone led to the range of life we see today

Christian Creationism says that Noah's flood is important to creationism. They argue that "the first buried fossils of each group are complete and complex (complicated), strong support for the biblical concept (idea) that each kind of life was created well designed to multiply after its own kind." They think that Cambrian trilobites and Jurassic dinosaurs (and people) all lived together on the earth at the same time, and that the Bible is literally true. They point to the perfection of Earth's size, shape, and distance as designed by God, and Earth's "im"perfections as proofs that the Earth is dirtied by humans' sin. They believe that God created the world in six days (with God resting on the seventh) as it was said in the Book of Genesis.

Islamic creationism is the belief that the universe (including humanity) was directly created by God as explained in the Qur'an. Currently, Islam takes religious texts literally. Many scholars say that Genesis is a corrupted version of God's message. 
There is also a creation myth in the Qu'ran, but it is more vague than Genesis. This allows for more interpretation. Several liberal movements within Islam generally accept the scientific positions on the age of the earth, the age of the universe and evolution.

Islam also has its own school of Evolutionary creationism/Theistic evolutionism, which says that mainstream scientific analysis of the origin of the universe is supported by the Qur'an. Many Muslims believe in evolutionary creationism, especially among Liberal movements within Islam.

Khalid Anees, president of the Islamic Society of Britain attended a conference called 'Creationism: Science and Faith in Schools'. During that conference, he made points including the following: There is no contradiction between what is revealed in the Koran and natural selection and survival of the fittest. However, some Muslims, such as Adnan Oktar, do not agree that one species can develop from another. 

But there is also a growing movement of Islamic creationism. Like the movement in Christianity, Islamic creationists are concerned that the findings of evolutionary theory might contradict what is written in the Qu'ran. 

There are several verses in the Qur'an which some modern writers have interpreted as being compatible with the expansion of the universe, Big Bang and Big Crunch theories:

"Do not the Unbelievers see that the skies (space) and the earth were joined together, then We clove them asunder and We created every living thing out of the water. Will they not then believe?"

"Then turned He to the sky (space) when it was smoke, and said unto it and unto the earth: Come both of you, willingly or loth. They said: We come, obedient."

"And it is We Who have constructed the sky (space) with might, and it is We Who are steadily expanding it."

"On the day when We will roll up the sky (space) like the rolling up of the scroll for writings, as We originated the first creation, (so) We shall reproduce it; a promise (binding on Us); surely We will bring it about."

Almost all scientists, as well as the United States courts say that creationism is not part of science.


</doc>
<doc id="14223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14223" title="Flute">
Flute

The flute is a woodwind instrument. A person who plays the flute is called a "flautist" (pronounce: "floor-tist") in British English, or "flutist" in American English. It is played by blowing across a hole in the instrument, rather like blowing over the top of an empty bottle. Flutes overblow at the octave. That means that once you have used up all your fingers for the first octave you can get the notes an octave higher by using the same fingering again but blowing a little harder.

Flutes were traditionally made of wood, which is why they are called woodwind instruments. Nowadays they are mostly made of metal which makes them much easier to mass-produce. Most wood-wind instruments require a reed but the technical definition would be any instrument made from wood.

The form of flute used in western classical music is blown from the side and has keys which are pressed with the fingers to cover the holes. This key system was invented in the 19th century by Theobald Boehm. In the Renaissance, keyless cylindrical flutes made in several sizes were often played in groups, or consorts, and sounded best played specific modes. Baroque flutes, which developed in the third quarter of the seventeenth century, had a single key, which makes it necessary for players to learn to play all the sharps and flats using cross fingerings. By the early eighteenth century skilled players were able to play in tune in as many as eighteen to nineteen keys. By the late eighteenth century several keys were added, but the basic design and technique still derived from that of the one-keyed model. Early flutes were designed to make enharmonic distinctions between notes (i.e. a sharp is slightly lower in pitch than its corresponding flat) in order to play in non-equal-tempered tunings. Modern flute players often find the technique of renaissance, baroque, and classical period ("simple system") flutes to be especially difficult if they come to these instruments from Boehm flute. 

There is a very large repertoire of music for the flute. Baroque composers used them in their orchestras, usually in pairs, and composed concertos, chamber music and solo music for them. This has continued to the present day. Orchestras have at least 2 flutes, sometimes three or four. Sometimes there is a piccolo which plays an octave higher, or an alto flute which plays a fifth lower than the flute.

The flute can sound very bright and cheerful when playing high notes. Listen, for example, to the "Badinerie" from Bach's "Orchestral Suite no 2". It can also sound very thoughtful or sad when playing in its lowest register. A good example is the opening of Debussy's "Prélude à l'après midi d'un faune".Go flutes!

The oldest kind of side-blown flute was made in India. 
In India, a flute called bansuri is used. It has no keys and is often made of bamboo or cane.

In China, a simple flute is used, which has no keys. The Chinese flute sometimes has a thin piece of paper over one hole, which adds a bright raspiness to the sound. It is the best!

There are other kinds of flute that are played by blowing into the end, like a recorder. Some of these are tin whistle, flageolet, tabor pipe, and ocarina.

In Japan there is a kind of flute called a "shakuhachi", made from the bottom of a bamboo plant. It is blown at the end, but is not like the recorder because it does not have an opening that guides the air across a hole that makes the sound.

In South America, there is a flute called a "quena" that makes its sound the same way as the "shakuhachi".

The Pan pipes are a form of flute with no holes. It has more than one pipe connected together, with the bottom closed. The player blows across the top of one of the pipes to make a note. The pipes are in different sizes, so that each one makes a different note. They are named after Pan, who played this instrument in Greek myth.

The band Jethro Tull features a flute player in many songs. One of which is the hit Locomotive Breath.


</doc>
<doc id="14225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14225" title="Staind">
Staind

Staind is an American rock band from Massachusetts, United States. The band was started in 1993. Its first album, "Tormented" was released in 1996. Staind's newest album, "The Illusion of Progress" was released on August 19, 2008. Some of its biggest hits have been "Outside", "It's Been Awhile", and "So Far Away".



</doc>
<doc id="14226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14226" title="Ocarina">
Ocarina

Ocarina is a kind of flute that is not made out of a tube. Because the ocarina is in a round or box-like shape, its sound is a little different from other flutes.

The ten-hole ocarina was first made by Giuseppe Donati, in Italy, in 1853. Instruments like the ocarina had been made for hundreds of years before that in South America, China, and Africa. In Europe, a form called the gemshorn was made in the 16th century. The gemshorn was made from an animal horn.

In the 19th century, groups of ocarina players, with different sized ocarinas, played classical and folk music. Italian ocarinas became known throughout the world, because of this.

In the United States the ocarina was called the sweet potato, because its shape is like a sweet potato.

In 1928, the Japanese began making ocarinas. They added two small holes to the old kind of ocarinas. Japanese 12-hole ocarinas can play a larger scale than 10-hole ocarinas.

In the 1960s, the English ocarina was invented. It has four finger holes, and may have one or two thumb holes. English ocarinas are made in many shapes.



</doc>
<doc id="14227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14227" title="Category:Woodwind instruments">
Category:Woodwind instruments

Woodwind instruments make music by reeds or by blowing across a sharp edge.


</doc>
<doc id="14228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14228" title="Clarinet">
Clarinet

The clarinet is a woodwind instrument.

The clarinet has one reed. The reed is made of wood. The reed is attached to the mouthpiece with a clamp called a "ligature", which is usually made out of metal. Blowing through the mouthpiece makes the reed shake, and therefore makes the noise. The body of the clarinet is a cylindrical tube with holes. The holes are covered by the fingers to make musical notes. There are also buttons pressed by the fingers which allow pads over holes to open or close so all notes of the chromatic scale can be played.

One kind of keyed clarinet is called the Albert clarinet. Another kind is called the Boehm clarinet. 

The Boehm clarinet is much used by classical orchestras and by jazz musicians. In North America, the most popular clarinet is the clarinet pitched in B-flat. This clarinet is used in concert, marching, and school bands. The A-clarinet is also used by musicians for orchestra.

A beginner clarinet player usually can play a note within the first ten minutes of instruction. Making a sound with the clarinet is easier than making a sound with many other musical instruments. Most instrumental music teachers consider it to be a good instrument for young players. The fingering system is very similar to the flute and the saxophone, so changing from playing the clarinet to one of these instruments is not too difficult after the student is comfortable playing the clarinet and has reached a certain level.

A famous piece that features a clarinet is Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's work 622, which has the clarinet playing a melody with the rest of the orchestra playing along. 



</doc>
<doc id="14230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14230" title="16th century">
16th century

The 16th century is the century from 1501 to 1600. In this century, many Europeans visited or moved to the newly-found Americas and some also searched for new routes to Asia. There was much change in Europe, such as the Protestant Reformation.

Note: years before or after the 16th century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="14231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14231" title="Lute">
Lute

The lute is a kind of musical instrument with strings.

The first lutes were brought to Spain by the Moors. Others may have been brought to Europe from Arabic lands. The lute is one of the ancestors of the classical guitar.

A lute has an oval-shaped back, made of strips of wood. It has a flat front, with a neck attached to it. Early lutes had four strings or eight sets of two strings. Beneath these strings, there were strings tied to the neck, where the player pressed down to make the notes. These strings were called frets.

The front part of the body is made of a flat piece of wood, and known as the sound board. It has a beautifully carved hole in the center which is called the rose.

The lute was at first played by strumming or plucking with a pick. Later they were played with the fingers alone.

During the Renaissance, bigger lutes were designed. Most lutes at this time had seven or eight sets of strings. New kinds of lutes were invented. One new kind of lute made in the Renaissance was the theorbo. Another kind was the archlute.

In European classical music the lute was changed into the harpsichord and the mandolin.

Today there are kinds of lute still being played in Greece, Turkey, and in Arabic-speaking countries. The Renaissance lute is also played today, in western countries, as well as a German lute that is played the same way as a guitar.


</doc>
<doc id="14232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14232" title="Independence Day (United States)">
Independence Day (United States)

In the United States, Independence Day, commonly known as the Fourth of July or the Fourth, is a federal holiday commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain. On Independence Day there are many events such as fireworks, parades, barbecues, carnivals, picnics, concerts, baseball games, political speeches and ceremonies, and various other public and private events. These events celebrate the history, government, and traditions of the United States.

Independence Day, the only holiday that celebrates the United States, is a national holiday marked by patriotic displays. Similar to other summer-themed events, Independence Day celebrations often take place outdoors. Independence Day is a federal holiday, so all non-essential federal institutions (like the postal service and federal courts) are closed on that day. Many politicians make it a point on this day to appear at a public event to praise the nation's heritage, laws, history, society, and people.

Families often celebrate Independence Day by having or going to a picnic or barbecue, and take advantage of the day off and in some years, long weekend to gather with relatives and friends. People may also do fun and relaxing hobbies like any othe day off such as swimming, fishing, boating, sunbathing, playing sports, or just kicking back and relaxing. Many stores are open on the fourth so people may go shopping. In the evening, people may launch their own fireworks. This is a common time for farmers to cut hay or do other farm labor. Decorations (e.g., streamers, balloons, and clothing) are generally colored red, white, and blue, the colors of the American flag. Parades often are in the morning, while fireworks displays occur in the evening at such places as parks, fairgrounds, or town squares.


</doc>
<doc id="14233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14233" title="Microsoft Office">
Microsoft Office

Microsoft Office or Microsoft Office System is a collection of computer programs made by Microsoft. The programs are created for all users. There are different versions of the software for home users and for business users. Some versions may offer more programs, and some versions cost less than others, but none are for free. The current version is Microsoft Office 2010 (Windows) and Microsoft Office for Mac 2011 (Mac).

The versions available are made up of some or all of the following programs:

Microsoft Word is a word processor that lets users type text into the document and add images, clip art, diagrams and different font or design choices. The main file formats are .doc and .docx.
it also helps to check the spelling and find the meaning of words

Microsoft Excel is a spreadsheet and mathematics program that can make calculations and graphs based on data the user enters. The main file formats are .xls and .xlsx. Most computers at schools do not have Microsoft Office 2007/2010, so the file format .xlsx (which is the 2007/2010 format) will not work. Try to save it as a .xls file whenever possible.

Microsoft PowerPoint is a program that creates presentations and slideshows. They can have text, drawing, pictures and media. They can also be set up to show on a projector. The main file formats are .ppt and .pptx.

Microsoft Outlook is an email client that can send and receive emails. The user can add a contact list, multiple calendars and it can be used with other programs in the office system.

In the Mac version of "Office", it is called Microsoft Entourage, and it has many of the same features.

Microsoft Access is a database program where people can store data over many tables.

Microsoft Publisher is a program that lets people make layouts for newsletters and presentations to print.


There are a lot of other programs which are competitors to Microsoft Office.

Microsoft Office 365 is a new way of sharing Microsoft Office documents with people from your organisation. It is currently in beta and is only open to a limited number of people.



</doc>
<doc id="14235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14235" title="Afrikaans">
Afrikaans

Afrikaans is a West Germanic language mainly spoken in South Africa and Namibia. It was originally the dialect that developed among the Afrikaner Protestant settlers, the unfree workers, and slaves brought to the Cape area in southwestern South Africa by the Dutch East India Company (Dutch language: "Verenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie" - VOC) between 1652 and 1705. Most of these first settlers were from the United Provinces (now Netherlands), though there were also many from Germany, some from France, a few from Scotland, and various other countries. The unfree workers and slaves were Malays, and Malagasy in addition to the native Khoi and Bushmen.

Research by J. A. Heese says that until 1807, 36.8% of the ancestors of the White Afrikaans speaking population were Dutch, 35% were German, 14.6% were French and 7.2% non-white (of African and/or Asian origins). 
Heese's figures are questioned by other researchers, however, and especially the non-white component quoted by Heese is very much in doubt.

A sizeable minority of those who spoke Afrikaans as a first language were not white. The dialect became known as "Cape Dutch". Later, Afrikaans was sometimes called "African Dutch" or "Kitchen Dutch". Afrikaans was considered a Dutch dialect until the early 20th century, when it began to be widely known as a different language. The name "Afrikaans" is simply the Dutch word for "African", and the language is the African form of Dutch.



</doc>
<doc id="14237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14237" title="Leonard Bernstein">
Leonard Bernstein

Leonard Bernstein (August 25, 1918 – October 14, 1990) was an American composer and conductor. He is best known for conducting the New York Philharmonic and for composing "West Side Story" and "Candide".



</doc>
<doc id="14239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14239" title="Afrikaans Language Monument">
Afrikaans Language Monument

The Afrikaans Language Monument (Afrikaans: "Afrikaanse Taalmonument") is the only monument in the world dedicated to a language. It is on a hill overlooking the Teachers' Training College in Paarl, Western Cape Province, South Africa. Completed in 1975, it was built to celebrate the 100 years birthday of Afrikaans being declared as a different language from Dutch.

The monument is made of tapering structures of a convex and concave nature. They show the influences of different languages and cultures on Afrikaans itself. They are also a symbol of political developments in South Africa, as follows:
On a large inscription at the entrance, two quotes from important Afrikaans poets are written.

The phrase ""DIT IS ONS ERNS"" ("we are earnest [about this]", or "this is our earnestness") is inscribed on the pathway leading up to the monument.


</doc>
<doc id="14264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14264" title="DC Comics">
DC Comics

DC Comics (founded in 1934 as National Allied Publications) is an American comic book company. It is owned by Time Warner. DC comics, short for "Detective Comics", is best well known for making "superhero" comic books. DC Comics are very famous in the modern art subject Graphics. 

Some of their characters include:


</doc>
<doc id="14265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14265" title="Wonder Woman">
Wonder Woman

Wonder Woman is a superheroine, who appears in DC Comics. She is the one of the first and most famous female superheros. William Moulton Marston created her in 1941. He was a psychologist who believed that women could be as strong and powerful as men. Many people think Marston was helped by his wife and based Wonder Woman on his mistress.

In the comic book, Wonder Woman's real name is Princess Diana and is the daughter of Queen Hippolyta, ruler of the Amazons (a race of female warriors from Greek mythology). She is found by Steve Trevor, a US Air Force pilot, and taken to the United States, where she becomes the superhero Wonder Woman. She has a magic lasso and unbreakable bracelets, both of which help in fighting villains. She can run very fast, is very strong, and she can fly.

Wonder Woman had also appeared in animated cartoons and in a live-action television program in the 1970s with actress Lynda Carter. The series made the character very famous.

In January 2001, producer Joel Silver asked Todd Alcott to write a "Wonder Woman" screenplay. Early rumors listed actresses such as Mariah Carey, Sandra Bullock, and Catherine Zeta-Jones to play the role of Wonder Woman. Leonard Goldberg, speaking in a May 2001 interview, named Sandra Bullock as a strong candidate for the project. Bullock said that she was asked to play the role. Lucy Lawless and Chyna both were interested in it. The screenplay then went through many versions written by many different writers. By August 2003, Levens was replaced by screenwriter Laeta Kalogridis.

In March 2005, Warner Bros. said that Joss Whedon would write and direct the movie version of "Wonder Woman." Because Whedon was directing "Serenity" at the time, and needed time to learn Wonder Woman's background, he did not start writing until late 2005. Silver wanted to movie "Wonder Woman" in Australia once the script was finished. In May 2005, Whedon said that he would not cast Wonder Woman until he finished the script. Charisma Carpenter and Morena Baccarin said they were interested in the role. 

In February 2007, Whedon left the project. He said there were problems with differences about the script between the studio and himself. Whedon said that since he was not doing the "Wonder Woman" project, he would focus on making his film "Goners". 



</doc>
<doc id="14266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14266" title="Bob Saget">
Bob Saget

Bob Saget (May 17, 1956- ) is an American comedian and actor. He is best known for his appearances on television as Danny Tanner on "Full House" and the original host of "America's Funniest Home Videos".


</doc>
<doc id="14268" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14268" title="Wilmington">
Wilmington

Wilmington is the name of many places:





</doc>
<doc id="14269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14269" title="Phil Collins">
Phil Collins

Philip David Charles "Phil" Collins (born 30 January 1951) is an English singer and drummer. He was born in Chiswick. He plays with the band Genesis. He is very well known for his career away from the band, as a solo singer. His most well known album is "No Jacket Required", which has sold over ten million copies in the US. One of his most well known songs is "In the Air Tonight", which had a long running rumor that it was about a drowning that Collins had witnessed.


</doc>
<doc id="14270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14270" title="Badfinger">
Badfinger

Badfinger was a British rock group. They were first called The Iveys, but renamed themselves after a song title, "Badfinger Boogie", the original title of "With a Little Help From My Friends". The band's members were Peter Ham, Tom Evans, Mike Gibbins and Joey Molland. Badfinger recorded for Apple Records, which was a record label started by The Beatles.

Their first hit record was "Come And Get It", which was written by Paul McCartney. It appeared in a movie, "The Magic Christian". The band followed McCartney's demo closely to make the record. The finished record sounded like a Beatles song, and the band were called "" of the Beatles. Later they made records that sounded different, and showed the band's own style. Todd Rundgren was the producer of some of their recordings.

Badfinger's other hit records included "No Matter What", "Day After Day", and "Baby Blue". Later they left Apple Records and recorded for Warner Bros. Ham and Evans were the band's main songwriters. One of their songs, "Without You", was recorded by the band, but was not a hit. A later by singer Harry Nilsson became an international hit, and was the first of many such versions. Many recording artists have sung "Without You", including Mariah Carey.

In 1970 Badfinger made an agreement with an American businessman called Stan Polley who promised to help them earn more money. But instead of helping them, Polley kept their money "away" from them in an account and refused to tell them how to get it out. He also behaved dishonestly toward Warner Bros. Because of his dishonesty, the band's sixth album was removed from shops after being available for only seven weeks, and Warner Bros. refused to release their seventh album. As a result, the band did not earn any money for their hard work, which made Pete Ham feel very depressed. Feeling that he could not be a good husband or father without any money, Ham committed suicide by hanging himself in 1975. Tom Evans had similar problems, and killed himself eight years later in the same way.

The other two band members, Gibbins and Molland, decided they still wanted to work together. They found two more musicians to take the place of Ham and Evans, and recorded a new album. The new songs still sounded like Badfinger songs, and they got permission from Ham's and Evans's families to keep using the Badfinger name. They had no more hits, but continued to tour and sometimes make new records. One record had cover art by artist Peter Max.


</doc>
<doc id="14285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14285" title="United Nations Security Council">
United Nations Security Council

The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) is the most powerful part of the United Nations. The Security Council deals with maintaining peace and security between nations. 

There are 15 members of the UNSC but only five are permanent members. They are:

The ten temporary seats are held for two years with member states (countries) voted in by the UN General Assembly on a regional basis. The Presidency of the Security Council (ie the leadership) is rotated alphabetically each month.
Currently the 10 temporary members with the name of their representative are:

If a country has behaved in a way seen as undesirable, the UNSC can make a ruling, known as United Nations Security Council Resolutions or sanctions. An example is that the UNSC has currently banned all imports of nuclear material to Iran as they feel Iran is going to make nuclear weapons. However, Germany has also conferenced with the permanent UN Security Council members about this issue. 
The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) is the most powerful part of the United Nations. The Security Council deals with maintaining peace and security between nations.


</doc>
<doc id="14307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14307" title="Category:1431 deaths">
Category:1431 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="14308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14308" title="Category:1430s deaths">
Category:1430s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1430s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="14309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14309" title="Category:1412 births">
Category:1412 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1412.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14310" title="Category:1412">
Category:1412


</doc>
<doc id="14311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14311" title="Category:1410s deaths">
Category:1410s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1410s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="14312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14312" title="Category:1410s">
Category:1410s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1410s which begins in the year 1410 and ends in the year 1419.


</doc>
<doc id="14313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14313" title="Category:New Zealand">
Category:New Zealand

Main article: New Zealand


</doc>
<doc id="14316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14316" title="High jump">
High jump

High jump is a track and field athletics event in which athletes jump over a horizontal bar placed at measured heights without the aid of any devices. The high jump was first practised in England in the 19th century. It became an Olympic sport in 1896 for men and in 1928 for women. The rules that were made in 1865 still exist today. Thus, every athlete has three attempts on every height. The athletes are allowed to touch the bar but they must not knock it down.

The men's world record of 2.45 metres was set in 1993 by Javier Sotomayor (Cuba). The women's world record of 2.09 metres is held by Stefka Kostadinova. It was set in 1987.



</doc>
<doc id="14317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14317" title="Manhattan">
Manhattan

Manhattan is an island, which is part of New York City. It is the center of the New York Metropolitan Area, an island, and the biggest borough in New York City (section of New York City), though it is the most densely populated borough (per square mile/square kilometer, it has more people than any other borough). 

The Dutch bought it from the Native Americans and called it New Amsterdam, then the English took it over and changed the name to New York. The name "Manhattan" comes from the Munsi language of the Lenni Lenape meaning "island of many hills". Other theories contend that it comes from one of three Munsi words. "Manahactanienk" meaning "place of inebriation". Other possibilities are "manahatouh" meaning "a place where wood is available for making bows and arrows" and "menatay" meaning simply "the island." 

Manhattan is a major commercial, financial, and cultural center of both the United States and the 
world. Most major radio, television, and telecommunications companies in the United States are based there, as well as many news, magazine, book, and other media publishers. Manhattan has many famous landmarks, tourist attractions, museums, and universities. It is also home to the headquarters of the United Nations. 
Before colonization, the Lenape Indians lived in the area that is now known today as Manhattan. In 1524, Lenape people in canoes met Giovanni da Verrazzano, the first European explorer to pass New York Harbor, although he may not have entered the harbor past the Narrows. It was not until the voyage of Henry Hudson, an Englishman who worked for the Dutch East India Company, that the area was mapped.

In the 1620s, the first large European colony began in New Netherland, when the Dutch began trading fur on Governors Island. In 1625, the Dutch chose Manhattan Island to build Fort Amsterdam, a citadel for the protection of the new arrivals. It would later be called New Amsterdam (Dutch: "Nieuw Amsterdam"). The creation of New Amsterdam was recognized as the birth of New York City. 

In 1626, Manhattan was bought from the Native Americans living on the island at the time. The price was trading goods worth 60 guilders, which was worth about 24 dollars at the time. The currency calculations from the International Institute of Social History in Amsterdam say that 60 guilders in the 1620s cost around $1000 now. 

In 1647, Peter Stuyvesant became the last Dutch Director General of the colony. New Amsterdam was considered an official city on 3 February 1653. In 1664, the British conquered New Netherland and renamed it "New York" after the English King James II, then known as Duke of York and Albany. Stuyvesant and his council made a deal with the British where New Netherlanders were promised liberties, including freedom of religion, under British rule. In August 1673, the Dutch took control of the island again, calling the city "New Orange" (Dutch: "Nieuwe Oranje"). The Dutch lost control of New Netherland forever to the English in November 1674 by treaty.

Manhattan was the center of many campaigns, battles and meetings during the American Revolution. In 1765, all of the colonies worked together for the first time unified political aim when the Stamp Act Congress (meeting) of representatives from across the Thirteen Colonies was held in New York City to write The Declaration of Rights and Grievances.

The Sons of Liberty, a Boston based group, were part of a long-term battle with British authorities over liberty poles that were sometimes raised by the Sons of Liberty and cut down by the British. The disputes ended when the revolutionary New York Provincial Congress took power in 1775. 

Manhattan was the center of a series of large battles in the early American Revolutionary War. These battles were called the New York Campaign, where British forces and colonists fought for control of New York City and the state of New Jersey. The Continental Army, the army that had fought in favor of the thirteen colonies led by George Washington, had to leave Manhattan after the Battle of Fort Washington on 16 November 1776. The main reason they had to leave was because the battle had caused a lot of damage to the city. As a result, the British had control of the area and used the city as the center for their political and military purposes for the rest of the war. 

While the British ruled, Manhattan was greatly damaged by the Great Fire of New York in 1776. Shortly after, Washington came back to Manhattan with his army. On Evacuation Day, the British occupation and the last of their forces had left that city on 25 November 1783. In 1784, the Continental Army was broken up, and the United States Army took its place. On 30 April, 1789, Washington was inaugurated (officially became) the first president of the United States and took his oath of office at Federal Hall on Wall Street. 

In the early 19th century, Manhattan grew in population and economically. Because of the Great Irish Famine, a lot of Irish people emigrated (left their country) to live in New York; they made up for 25% of Manhattan's population at the time. Many of the Irish people lived in a part of the Lower East Side known as the Bowery or in another section called Five Points.

After the Civil War, many immigrants of Italian , Polish and Jewish backgrounds came to Manhattan and lived in tenements in a part of the city called the Lower East Side. Over a million people lived in the area at one point. 

An Irish political machine called Tammany Hall was very important to New York City during the Gilded Age. With the support of mostly Irish immigrants, it grew as a political machine. The support helped win the election for the first Tammany mayor, Fernando Wood, in 1854. Central Park, which opened to the public in 1858, became the first landscaped park in any American city and the country's first public park. 

The rate of immigration from Europe shot up after the Civil War, and New York became the most popular state for immigrants in the United States. Because of this, the French built and gave New York the Statue of Liberty on October 28, 1886. Soon after, the boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn were combined into one city.

In the beginning of the 20th century, many new things were built in the city, like skyscrapers and the New York City Subway. The first subway transit center, the Interborough Rapid Transit or "IRT", opened to the public in 1904. The installation of the Subway helped tie the new city together, as did new bridges to Brooklyn. In the 1920s, many African-Americans came to live in Manhattan during the Great Migration from the American South, and the Harlem Renaissance. New York City became the most populous city (city with the most people) in the world in 1925, overtaking London, which had held the title for a century.

Between World War I and World War II, reformist Fiorello La Guardia was elected as the new mayor in 1933 and took office in 1934, marking the fall of Tammany Hall after 80 years of dominating politics in New York City. Once the city's demographics were steadier, labor unionization provided protection and affluence to the working class. Despite the Great Depression, some of the world's tallest skyscrapers of the time were built in Manhattan during the 1930s, including many Art Deco masterpieces that are still part of the city's skyline today. The most well-known structures are Empire State Building, the Chrysler Building, and the GE Building.

Following the end of World War II, a lot of veterans came home to the United States. This led to the development of private communities that were intended to be sold or rented out to returning soldiers, resulting in an economic boom. An example of one of the communities built to attract veterans looking for homes is Stuyvesant Town—Peter Cooper Village, which opened in 1947. In 1951, the United Nations relocated from its first headquarters in Queens, to the East Side of Manhattan.

New York had many race riots, and population and industrial began to decline in the 1960s. By the 1970s, the city had gained a reputation as a graffiti-covered, crime-ridden relic of history. In 1975, the city government went bankrupt (lost all its money), and its pleas for financial help were rejected at first. On 30 October 1975, the New York Daily News reported the event with the headline as "Ford to City: Drop Dead". The city received a federal loan and debt restructuring. After the economic downfall and recovery, New York State kept a close watch on New York City's economy. 

In the 1980s, Wall Street was revived from its slump, and the city reclaimed its role at the center of the worldwide financial industry. During this time, Manhattan was also at the heart of the AIDS crisis, with Greenwich Village being a major center of the epidemic. "Gay Men's Health Crisis" (GMHC) and "AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power" (ACT UP) were organizations that were started because of the crisis. Their purpose was to advocate on behalf of those AIDs victims.

Crime rates began to drop greatly in the 1990s. Murder rates were 537 in 2008 compared to 2,245 in 1990. The crack epidemic and its associated drug-related violence had died down, and was under great control by the city. Many people who had moved out of the city came back because the city once again became the destination of immigrants from around the world, joining with low interest rates and Wall Street bonuses to fuel the growth of the real estate market.



</doc>
<doc id="14318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14318" title="The Bronx">
The Bronx

The Bronx is a part of New York City, United States. The name came from Bronck's Farms, owned by a settler called Jonas Bronck. It is the home of the New York Yankees baseball team.



</doc>
<doc id="14319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14319" title="Bob Denver">
Bob Denver

Bob Denver (January 9, 1935 – September 2, 2005) was an American actor. He was best known for his roles as Gilligan on the 1960s television series "Gilligan's Island" and Maynard G. Krebs on the earlier "Many Loves of Dobie Gillis". He appeared on many other shows including "The Good Guys", "Dusty's Trail", and "Far-Out Space Nuts", but these could not match his success as Gilligan. In 1998, he was arrested for marijuana possession and in 2005, he underwent heart surgery. After that he learned he had cancer. Before he became an actor, Denver worked as a mailman and a high school teacher.


</doc>
<doc id="14321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14321" title="1100">
1100

Note that 1100 is the last year of the 11th century; 1101 is the first year of the 12th century.





</doc>
<doc id="14322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14322" title="Monk">
Monk

A monk is a man who devoted part or all of his life to a religion. The word comes from Ancient Greek, and can be translated as "solitary". In Greek, the word can be used for men and women alike, but in English,a woman who does the same is called a nun. Monks practice asceticism. They either live alone, or together with other monks who share the same ideals. Monks can be found in different religions, most often in Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Jainism and Taoism. 

The monks who live on their own are usually called hermits, those living with other monks do so in monasteries. Nuns living together do so in a convent. 

Some laws monks might choose to obey:


</doc>
<doc id="14323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14323" title="Dream Theater">
Dream Theater

Dream Theater (often called "DT" for short) is a progressive metal band formed in the mid-1980s in the United States.



The band was founded by John Myung, John Petrucci and Mike Portnoy. Myung and Petrucci are the only original members that are still in the band today. They changed their singer twice in the late 1980s when Chris Collins was replaced by Charles Dominici in 1987. Dominici left the band only 3 years later, in 1990, and James LaBrie joined and stayed until today. Dream Theater's keyboardist also changed three times. Kevin Moore played with the band from 1986 until 1995 when he left and Derek Sherinan took his position until 1999. Jordan Rudess is Dream Theater's Keyboardist now. He is known for his excellent technique and compositional skills. In September 2010, drummer Mike Portnoy left Dream Theater.

The members of Dream Theater are known for having excellent playing technique of their instruments, and for their songwriting. Their music is very complex and the songs are often long, their longest being "Six Degrees of Inner Turbulence" at 42 minutes in length.

Their songs contain a lot of instrumental sections, in which no vocals are heard and only the instruments play (these parts are called "instrumental passages") and also many solos. Another feature of their music is that during each song, the speed often changes, and occasionally style changes too.

They once said that other bands have trouble making long songs. They said they have trouble making "short" songs. Most of Dream Theater's music is very difficult to play because of the high speed it has to be played with and the complex rhythm.



</doc>
<doc id="14328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14328" title="Category:Disney">
Category:Disney

Below is a list of articles and subcategories related to The Walt Disney Company.


</doc>
<doc id="14329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14329" title="Category:Disney animated movies">
Category:Disney animated movies

Below is a list of animated movies from The Walt Disney Company, along with the separate article.


</doc>
<doc id="14332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14332" title="Triangle">
Triangle

A triangle is a shape or area, or a specific part of two dimension space. It has three straight sides and three points. The three angles of a triangle always add up to 180 degrees. It is the polygon with the least possible number of sides.

Triangles can be grouped according to how long their sides are

Triangles can also be grouped by their angles.


Triangles are extremely useful, because the ratio of the length of sides to an angle is always the same. Measuring objects using triangles is called Trigonometry. Some people have spent their entire lives studying triangles for use in trigonometry.

Modern computers usually use triangles to make more complex graphic images or shapes. 



</doc>
<doc id="14340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14340" title="Benchmark">
Benchmark

Benchmarks can measure the skills of the computer or the computer user. These are the 50 most basic computer user skills. The computer skills needed to use a computer, view documents, create documents, and to print to a connected printer.


With permission from CAAAELII. Source: Simple Language Computer Lessons skills survey at CAAAELII.org, which references San Diego City Schools Educational Technology Department, which references National Educational Technology Standards at Iste.org



</doc>
<doc id="14346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14346" title="Feminism">
Feminism

Feminism is a social and political movement. Feminism is about changing the way that people see men and women. Feminism said that women were poorly treated in the past and that this must stop. Somebody who follows feminism is called a feminist.

There are many different types of feminism:

There are also many other types of feminism.

Feminism started with the idea that human rights should be given to women. This idea was put forward by some philosophers in the 18th and 19th centuries such as Mary Wollstonecraft and John Stuart Mill. Later feminists in the early 20th century also said that women should be allowed to vote in a democracy. Many women felt very strongly that they should be allowed to vote and there were many protests. These women were called Suffragettes. This is because they were fighting for Universal Suffrage which means everybody is able to vote. The Suffragettes staged many protests for their rights. Some women even committed suicide to show how wrong it was that they could not take part in politics. After women received the vote, feminism worked to make all of society more equal for women.

There are many reasons why some people do not like feminism:






There are also many other types of anti-feminism.



</doc>
<doc id="14352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14352" title="Eivør Pálsdóttir">
Eivør Pálsdóttir

Eivør Pálsdóttir is a Danish singer and composer. She is from the Faroe Islands. She sings in Faroese, but also in English, Icelandic, Swedish and Danish. She was born on July 21, 1983 in the village of Syðrugøta.

Eivør Pálsdóttir is one of the most well-known singers from the Faroe Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="14355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14355" title="Hippopotamus">
Hippopotamus

The hippopotamus ("Hippopotamus amphibius"), or hippo, from the ancient Greek for "river horse" ("Ιπποπόταμος"), is a large mammal in Africa that usually eats plants. It is one of the only two species in the family Hippopotamidae that are still alive. The other is the Pygmy Hippopotamus. The hippopotamus is the third largest land animal (the elephant is the largest, and the white rhinoceros is the second largest). It is also the heaviest artiodactyl, even though it is much shorter than the giraffe. 

The hippopotamus is semi-aquatic. This means that even though it usually lives on the land, it spends a great amount of time in rivers and lakes where males lead groups of 5 to 30 females and young. In the daytime, they keep cool by staying in the water or mud. They give birth to baby hippos in the water, too. At dusk, they come out to graze on grass. Hippopotamuses rest together in the water, but they like to graze by themselves.

The hippopotamus has a torso that is shaped like a barrel, very big mouth and teeth, almost hairless body, short legs and great size. It is the third largest land mammal, judging by its weight, which is between between 1½ and 3 tonnes. The white rhinoceros weighs 1½ to 3½ tonnes, and the three species of elephant weigh 3 to 9 tonnes. Even though it has short, fat legs, it can run more quickly than a human. Some hippos have run at 30 km/h (19 mph) for short distances. The hippopotamus is one of the fiercest animals in the world. It is often called one of the most dangerous animals in Africa. There are about 125,000 to 150,000 hippos in Sub-Saharan Africa. Zambia (40,000) and Tanzania (20,000 – 30,000) have the most hippos. They are threatened because they are losing their habitats and being poached for their meat and ivory teeth.

The word "hippopotamus" comes from the ancient Greek , "hippopotamos", from , "hippos", "horse", and , "potamos", which means "river". So, "hippopotamus" means "horse of the river". More than one hippopotamus are called hippopotamuses, "hippopotami", or "hippos". Hippopotamuses are social. About 30 hippos live together in groups. This kind of group is called a pod, herd, dale, or bloat. A male hippopotamus is known as a bull. A female hippopotamus is called a cow, and a baby hippo is called a calf. The species is also known as the Common Hippopotamus or the Nile Hippopotamus.

Hippopotamuses are the fourth largest mammals in the world (after whales, elephants, and rhinoceroses). The Egyptian Hippopotamus is much smaller than the others however. They can live in the water or on land. They swim very well, and can walk or even run along the bottom of a river.

Because hippos are so large, it is difficult to weigh them in the wild. Most adult male hippos weigh between . Females hippos are smaller, and usually weigh between . Older males can get even bigger. They are at least and sometimes even weigh .

Male hippos seem to keep on growing for their whole lives. Females hippos, though, become heaviest when they are about 25 years old.

Hippos have big and heavy bodies, dark gray skin, and short legs. A hippo's main defence is their extremely strong mouth. Hippos are actually strong enough to break an alligator in half with one bite, but they are usually not violent unless something attacks their babies. They can grow to be 15 feet long and weigh 3,000 pounds. 

Hippopotamuses are herbivores. They live in groups. Sometimes 30 hippopotamuses will live in the same place. They swim very well, and can actually walk along the bottom of the river. They usually stay in the mud and water during the day and come out to eat grass or leaves at night. The people of the Congo love to eat hippopotamus meat. Many of the hippos are killed for food, even though it is illegal. 

Many hippos lived in North Africa and Europe until about 30,000 years ago. They used to be common in Egypt's Nile region from long ago, though they are not there now. Pliny the Elder writes that, in his time, the best place in Egypt for finding this animal was in the Saite nome. The animal could still be found around there after the Arab Conquest in 639. Hippos are still found in the rivers and lakes of Uganda, Sudan, Somalia, Kenya, northern Democratic Republic of the Congo and Ethiopia, west through Ghana to Gambia, and also in Southern Africa (Botswana, Republic of South Africa, Zimbabwe, Zambia). Some hippos also live in Tanzania and Mozambique. They like to live in places with water that is not too deep.

Hippos are very aggressive towards humans, whom they commonly attack whether in boats or on land with no apparent provocation. This aggression by the Hippopotamus is caused by humans coming to close to their children. Hippopotamus's are very protective of their young and they often fear that humans pose a large threat to their young. They are widely considered to be one of the most dangerous large animals in Africa.

The earliest proof that humans were involved with hippos comes from butchery cut marks on hippo bones at Bouri Formation from around 160,000 years ago. Later rock paintings and engravings showing hippos being hunted. They have been found in the mountains of the central Sahara from 4,000–5,000 years ago near Djanet. Ancient Egyptians also knew much about hippos. They knew the hippo was a fierce, wild animal that lived in the Nile. In Egyptian mythology, Tawaret, a goddess of protection in pregnancy and childbirth, had the head of a hippo. This was because ancient Egyptians saw how protective female hippopotamuses could be about their young.

http://www.ypte.org.uk/animal/hippopotamus/130 article retrieved on November 11, 2010



</doc>
<doc id="14356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14356" title="Prefecture">
Prefecture

A prefecture is a word used by countries such as Greece and Japan (called "νομός", "nomós" in Greece and called 県 "ken" in Japan). It is a smaller part of a country with its own government. In the United States, like parts are called a state. In France, it is the head of the department ("see" Prefectures in France "for more detail").


</doc>
<doc id="14361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14361" title="2010">
2010

2010 (MMX) was a common year that started on a Friday in the Gregorian calendar. It was also the 1st year of the 2010s decade.
The United Nations designated 2010 the International Year of Biodiversity and International Year of Youth.

There are many debates over how the year 2010 and subsequent years are pronounced. The year 2010 is either pronounced "twenty-ten" or "two thousand (and) ten".




















</doc>
<doc id="14365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14365" title="Category:Disney movies">
Category:Disney movies

This category includes movies from The Walt Disney Company.

"See also the main article for a complete list."


</doc>
<doc id="14366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14366" title="Eris (dwarf planet)">
Eris (dwarf planet)

Eris is a dwarf planet and a trans-Neptunian object (TNO). It is located in the outer Solar System. It is the largest dwarf planet known, even bigger than Pluto, at 2400 km in diameter. Eris is a "scattered disc object" and it is found within the Kuiper belt, further out than Pluto. It is also called a "pluton" because its size, orbit and location are similar to that of Pluto. Eris orbits the sun once every 557 Earth years and it has an elliptical (egg-shaped) orbit, tilted at an angle of 44°. It has only one moon called Dysnomia.
Eris was discovered by Michael E. Brown, Chad Trujillo and David Rabinowitz on January 5, 2005, when they were having a close look at some images of the outer Solar System taken in 2003.

Eris was originally called "Xena", after the main character of the television series "". However, there is a rule stating that all objects orbiting outside Neptune’s orbit have to be named after a creation of mythology. Therefore, it was officially named Eris on September 13, 2006. Eris is named after the goddess of strife, discord, contention and rivalry in Greek mythology.

Eris has one moon called Dysnomia. It was discovered on September 10, 2005. Dysnomia was originally nicknamed "Gabrielle", after a character from the television series "Xena: Warrior Princess", like Eris. However, like Eris, it could not be called this. Dysnomia was named after the daughter of Eris, in Greek mythology. Dymnosia is the goddess (or spirit) of lawlessness and poor civil constitution.

Many media reports have argued that Eris is the tenth planet, along with astronomers and NASA scientists. However, the definition of a planet was re-defined in August 2006. Under the new specifications, Eris, along with Pluto, was lowered in status to a dwarf planet.

Scientists are continuing to find out more about Eris and its moon, and to look for any more moons and rings.




</doc>
<doc id="14377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14377" title="Battle of Normandy">
Battle of Normandy

The Battle of Normandy was fought in 1944 between the German army and the Allied forces as part of World War II. Sixty years later, the Normandy invasion, codenamed Operation OVERLORD, is the largest invasion by sea in history, involving almost three million troops crossing the English Channel from England to Normandy in then German-occupied France.

The main Allied forces came from the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada, but a total of twelve nations contributed units, the rest being Australia, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, France, Greece, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway and Poland.

Sword Beach was the easternmost beach on D-Day, and was attacked by the British 3rd Infantry Division, supported by units of the 79th Armoured Division. It was successful.

Juno Beach was the next beach to the west. It was attacked by the Canadian 3rd Division. It was also successful.

Gold Beach was the "middle" beach, lying between Sword, Juno, Omaha, and Utah beaches. It was attacked by the British 50th (Northumbrian) Division.

Omaha Beach was the second western-most beach. It was attacked by the American 1st Division. The bombardment before the assault was successful on every beach except Omaha, so German bunkers and artillery still remained. The battle was hard, but eventually the Americans won. Almost 2,500 Americans died on Omaha Beach.

Utah beach was the western-most beach. It was mostly successful, and it was attacked by the American 4th Division.



</doc>
<doc id="14380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14380" title="Mike Tyson">
Mike Tyson

Michael Gerard Tyson (June 30, 1966) is an American retired boxer. He held the heavyweight championship.

Mike Tyson became a professional boxer in 1985 and won a heavyweight title from Trevor Berbick in 1986. He was the youngest man to win a heavyweight title belt. He became recognized as the undisputed champion when he beat Michael Spinks in 1988. He lost his title to Buster Douglas in 1990.

He was convicted of rape in 1992 and served three years in jail. When he was released he started boxing again and won a few heavyweight titles. Evander Holyfield was the first fighter to beat him in his return. Tyson also fought Lennox Lewis, who beat him, too. He retired from boxing in 2005.



</doc>
<doc id="14382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14382" title="Cleveland, Ohio">
Cleveland, Ohio

Cleveland is a city that is located in northern Ohio, US. It is home to over 400,000 people. It was named for General Moses Cleaveland in 1796, but a mistake in a local newspaper left out the first "a" in its name, which is why it is spelt like it is today. Its metropolitan area makes it the largest urban division in the state.

Cleveland is home to the world-famous Cleveland Orchestra.

Professional sports teams that make their home in or near Cleveland include the Cleveland Indians, who play baseball; the Cleveland Browns, who play football; and the Cleveland Cavaliers, who play basketball.

Cleveland is one of the important industrial centers of the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="14383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14383" title="Lexus">
Lexus

Lexus is a luxury car line produced by the Toyota company. Its worldwide motto is ""The Pursuit of Perfection"" Its slogan in the United States is ""The Passionate Pursuit of Perfection"".
This brand of vehicle is newer than others. Founded 1989


</doc>
<doc id="14384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14384" title="Against">
Against

Against can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="14385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14385" title="Dentition">
Dentition

Dentition is the development of teeth and where the teeth are in the mouth. Almost all mammals have up to four different types of teeth: incisors, canines, premolars, and molars. Animals that have different types of teeth are called "heterodont". If they do not, they are called "homodont".

In mammals, the young have a set of primary teeth (milk teeth) that fall out after a few years. When they fall out, adult teeth grow in. Animals that have milk teeth and adult teeth are called diphyodont.

Dentition is important to people who archaeology. Dentition is used to study human migration. Tooth enamel contains trace elements which show where they grew.





</doc>
<doc id="14388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14388" title="Plectrum">
Plectrum

A plectrum or pick is a small object used to play certain types of string instruments. The plectrum is held in the hand and used to pluck a string. This makes a hard, metallic, "twangy" sound. The instruments most commonly plucked include the guitar, lute and mandolin. The strings of a harpsichord are also plucked, although the plectra in this instrument are called "jacks". They pluck the string when the player presses a key down.


</doc>
<doc id="14389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14389" title="Category:Animated television series">
Category:Animated television series

This category lists animated television series with Simple English Wikipedia pages.


</doc>
<doc id="14391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14391" title="Danny Barker">
Danny Barker

Danny Barker (January 13, 1909 – March 13, 1994) was a New Orleans jazz singer-songwriter and musician. 


</doc>
<doc id="14392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14392" title="Charlie Christian">
Charlie Christian

Charles Henry "Charlie" Christian (July 29, 1916 – March 2, 1942) was an American jazz guitarist. Christian is best known as one of the first famous guitarists to play the electric guitar. He is also remembered as one of the first musicians to help create the styles of jazz music known as ""bebop"" and ""cool jazz.""

Christian first gained fame as a member of the Benny Goodman Orchestra. He played with Goodman from August 1939 to June 1941. He was very good at playing many notes up and down on a sinle guitar string. By playing his guitar through an amplifier his guitar solos made the guitar very loud in the band.

Christian died in March 1942 when he was only 26 years old. He had been sick with tuberculosis for several years before he died.

Even though he was jazz guitarist who died before the music style rock and roll was started, he was still a large influence on rock and roll musicians. It was because of this that in 1990 Charlie Christian was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame even though he had never played rock and roll music.

Charles Henry Christian was raised in Oklahoma City in the American state of Oklahoma. In 2006 Oklahoma City renamed a street to ""Charlie Christian Avenue."" There is also a yearly jazz music festival in Oklahoma City which is named after Charlie Christian.


</doc>
<doc id="14393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14393" title="Franco Cerri">
Franco Cerri

Franco Cerri (born January 29, 1926) is an Italian jazz guitar player. 


</doc>
<doc id="14394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14394" title="Eddie Condon">
Eddie Condon

Albert Edwin "Eddie" Condon (November 16, 1904 – August 4, 1973) was a Chicago jazz/big band rhythm guitarist.


</doc>
<doc id="14395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14395" title="Al Di Meola">
Al Di Meola

Al DiMeola (born July 22, 1954) is a Jazz fusion guitarist. He was born in Jersey City, New Jersey.


</doc>
<doc id="14396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14396" title="White House">
White House

The White House is the home and main workplace of the President of the United States. The house was designed by Irish-born James Hoban. It is located at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C.. The building was built between 1792 and 1800 of white-painted Aquia sandstone in the Neoclassical style. It has been the home of every U.S. President since John Adams. When Thomas Jefferson moved into the house in 1801, he (with architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe) expanded the building outward. They made two colonnades that were meant to hide stables and storage.

In 1814, during the War of 1812, the mansion was set on fire by the British Army in the Burning of Washington. The fire destroyed the inside of the house and charred much of the outside. Reconstruction began almost immediately. President James Monroe moved into the partially reconstructed house in October 1817. Construction continued with the addition of the South Portico in 1824 and the North in 1829. Because of crowding within the executive mansion itself, President Theodore Roosevelt had all work offices moved to the newly constructed West Wing in 1901. Eight years later, President William Howard Taft expanded the West Wing and created the first Oval Office. This was eventually moved as the section was expanded. The third-floor attic was changed into living quarters in 1927. A newly built East Wing was used as a reception area for social events. Jefferson's colonnades connected the new wings. East Wing changes were completed in 1946. These changes made more office space. By 1948, the house's load-bearing exterior walls and internal wood beams were found to be close to failure. Under Harry S. Truman, the interior rooms were completely taken apart and a new internal load-bearing steel frame was built inside the walls. Once this work was done, the interior rooms were rebuilt.

Today, the White House Complex includes the Executive Residence, West Wing, Cabinet Room, Roosevelt Room, East Wing, and the Old Executive Office Building, which houses the executive offices of the President and Vice President.

The White House is made up of six stories—the Ground Floor, State Floor, Second Floor, and Third Floor, as well as a two-story basement. The term "White House" is regularly used as a metonym for the Executive Office of the President of the United States and for the president's administration and advisers in general. The property is owned by the National Park Service and is part of the President's Park. In 2007, it was ranked second on the American Institute of Architects list of "America's Favorite Architecture."


</doc>
<doc id="14398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14398" title="George Carlin">
George Carlin

George Carlin (May 12, 1937 – June 22, 2008) was an American actor and comedian. Carlin was famous for making a list of curse words that people should not say in the media, or even in public. (The list was ironically adopted by many radio stations, as a guide to what kind of language was not allowed.)

As a stand-up performer, he had been called one of the greatest of his genre by the television network Comedy Central. 

He had been seen in movies such as "Jersey Girl", "Dogma", "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure" (and its sequel), "Scary Movie 3", and Disney's "Tarzan 2".

He died of heart failure at age 71. Carlin had a history of heart problems and had suffered several heart attacks.


</doc>
<doc id="14400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14400" title="Portuguese language">
Portuguese language

The Portuguese language is one of the of Romance languages (languages which came from the Latin language). The Portuguese word for Portuguese is "português".

The Portuguese language is the third most spoken western language (just after English and Spanish) with about 2,000,000 million native speakers, and a few more millions all over the world because of the people of Portugal, Brazil (in Portuguese, Brasil), Cape Verde (Cabo Verde), Angola, Mozambique (Moçambique), etc., who traveled to many different parts of the world. 

As Portuguese and Spanish are both Romance languages, they have a lot of things in common, but they are not the same. Usually a Portuguese speaker can understand a Spanish speaker. On the other hand, it is rarer that a Spanish speaker can understand a Portuguese speaker. For example: "I opened the window very fast so as to have dinner" translates as "Abri a janela muito rápido para jantar" in Portuguese and "Abrí la ventana muy pronto para cenar" in Spanish. Although the Portuguese written language seems similar to Spanish, most spoken Portuguese does not. At times, it may even sound more like French, due to both languages using vowels where air passes through the nose in the nasal cavities. For example, the first three letters of "bom dia" (good day) sound very much like the first three letters of the same idea in French: "bonjour". The vowel "o" here is called a "nasal vowel"; its symbol in the IPA is "õ". Overall, Portuguese is not any more similar to English than Spanish.

The places where people speak Portuguese as the first language are Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, East Timor, Guinea Bissau, Macau, Mozambique, Portugal, São Tomé and Príncipe and in the cities of Goa, Daman and Diu (India).

Portuguese and English have words that mean the same thing and look similar as well. This is because these words came from the same languages (for example Latin, Greek or French).


The list is long.

Some English words come from Portuguese, for example tank (tanque), cacao (cacau) and marmalade (marmelada from ”marmelo” = quince).





Portuguese is the official language of all countries of the CPLP (Comunidade dos Países de Língua Portuguesa, "Community of Portuguese Language Countries"). The Portuguese-speaking countries have more than 240 million people across the world.
The CPLP was formed in 1996 with seven countries: Portugal, Brazil, Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and São Tomé and Príncipe. East Timor joined in 2002. 

The CPLP nations speak Portuguese with different accents. In some regions of Brazil the pronoun 'tu' (meaning 'you', but only used when you speak to your family and friends) is not used as much as in Portugal. Also regional slang can be found in different areas. The Portuguese Orthographic Agreement of 1990 (Acordo Ortográfico de 1990) tries to smooth over those differences.


</doc>
<doc id="14402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14402" title="Hurricane Katrina">
Hurricane Katrina

Hurricane Katrina was a hurricane in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season was the most expensive natural disaster, as well as one of the five deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the United States. Parts of the states of Mississippi and Alabama were also badly damaged or flooded. It was the most expensive and one of the deadliest natural disasters in the history of the United States (at $84 billion in damage). Over 1,800 people were killed by the storm, with 1,577 in Louisiana and 238 in Mississippi. However, the worst property damage was in coastal areas of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, such as all Mississippi beachfront towns, which were flooded over 90% in hours, as boats and casino barges rammed buildings, pushing cars and houses inland, with waters reaching 6–12 miles (10–19 km) from the beach. In Alabama, large fishing boats, a small ship, and an oil rig came ashore, as beach homes and coastal buildings were flooded by waters 11–22 ft deep (3–6 m).

Hurricane Katrina was the eleventh tropical storm, fifth hurricane, and the second Category 5 hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. The storm formed over the Bahamas on August 23, where it moved east and hit Florida as a Category 1 hurricane two days later. Katrina then crossed over Florida and strengthened into a Category 5 hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico. The storm then hit Louisiana and Mississippi on the morning of August 29. The leftovers of Katrina then died out over the Great Lakes on August 31.

The damages Katrina brought were so bad that 80% of New Orleans was flooded when the levees to the city broke. Most of the people killed by Katrina were thought to be from drowning. Because of Katrina's effect on the United States of America, the hurricane was known to be one of the most deadly hurricanes in US history.

Hurricane Katrina began as Tropical Depression Twelve over the southeastern Bahamas on August 23, 2005. The depression later strengthened into a tropical storm on the morning of August 24 where the storm was also named "Katrina." Katrina continued to move into Florida, and became a Category 1 hurricane only two hours before it made landfall around Hallandale Beach on the morning of August 25. The storm weakened over land, but became a hurricane again while entering the Gulf of Mexico.

Katrina began to gain strength very quickly after entering the Gulf, partly because of the storm moving over to the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico. On August 27, Hurricane Katrina reached Category 3 strength on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, becoming the third major hurricane of the season. An "eyewall replacement cycle" once made Katrina stop becoming stronger for a short moment, but made Katrina to become nearly twice as large in the end.

Katrina again began to quickly strengthen, reaching Category 5 strength on the morning of August 28 and reached its strongest point with maximum sustained winds of 175 mph (280 km/h) and a minimum central pressure of 902 mbar. Katrina's minimal pressure measurement made it the fourth most powerful Atlantic hurricane on record at the time, only to be beaten by Hurricanes Rita and Wilma later in the season. In addition, Katrina was also the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Gulf of Mexico at the time (a record also later broken by Rita).

Katrina made its second landfall on August 29 as a Category 4 hurricane with sustained winds of 125 mph (205 km/h) near st.bernard, Louisiana. At landfall, hurricane-force winds reached outward 120 miles (190 km) from the center and the storm's central pressure was 920 mbar. After moving over southeastern Louisiana, it made its third landfall over New Orleans, Louisiana and the levees where not made to withstand that much water and ended up collapsing leading to massive flooding. Katrina kept its hurricane strength well into Mississippi, but began to weaken later, finally losing hurricane strength more than 150 miles (240 km) inland near Meridian, Mississippi. Katrina weakened to a tropical depression near Clarksville, Tennessee, but its remnants were last seen around the eastern Great Lakes on August 31 when it became extratropical. The leftover extratropical cyclone moved quickly to the northeast and affected Ontario and Quebec.

American filmmaker Spike Lee made a HBO documentary "When The Levees Broke" that shows the extensive damage in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. The documentary suggests that the damage caused was due to the inability of the levees to weather the storm or a probable sabotage. The documentary also suggests that the federal government did a poor job of disaster management. Resources arrived after several days and most of the people who died, did so from drowning.

The name Katrina was retired for the record breaking damage, the deaths, and the economic impact. This means that it will not be used as a name for any new storms in the future. A new name, Katia, is on the list for 2011.




</doc>
<doc id="14404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14404" title="Carlos Fuentes">
Carlos Fuentes

Carlos Fuentes (born November 11, 1928) is a Mexican writer.


</doc>
<doc id="14408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14408" title="Bass guitar">
Bass guitar

nice sound and even beter if you have a moustache
A bass guitar (also called an ""electric bass"" or ""bass"") is a string instrument which is related to the electric guitar. The bass guitar is shaped like an electric guitar, except that it is longer than an electric guitar. The electric bass has many of the same parts as an electric guitar. However, the bass guitar produces lower tones than the electric guitar. 

The bass guitar is used to play low musical sounds called "bass lines" in many styles of music such as rock music, pop music, country music, jazz fusion music and many more.

The bass guitar was first made in the 1930s by inventor Paul Tutmarc from Seattle, Washington. However, very few musicians were interested in the instrument that Tutmarc made. It was the 1950s when musicians finally started to play the double bass in jazz, blues, folk, early rock music and bluegrass. The double bass was big, heavy, hard to carry around and was hard to play precise notes on. Musicians wanted a smaller instrument that weighed less. Inventors tried to think of ways of building a smaller and lighter bass instrument. One of these inventors was a man named Leo Fender in the United States. Leo Fender developed a bass guitar in the 1950s using the ideas developed by Tutmarc. 

Leo Fender used many parts for the bass guitar that are similar to the parts of an electric guitar. Leo Fender called the instrument the "Fender Precision Bass". He used the word "Precision" in the name because his instrument had metal frets on the neck. The double bass did not have frets on its neck. The frets on the bass guitar made it easier for musicians to play precise notes. The bass guitar developed by Leo Fender became very popular. In the 2000s, many bass guitars are still designed to look like his Fender Precision Bass.

Bass guitars are normally made out of wood. Bass guitars have a few main pieces such as a body, neck, fingerboard, frets, and strings. The body is made out of wood. A wooden neck is glued or bolted onto the body. A wooden fingerboard is then glued onto the neck. Then, thin metal strips called frets are glued onto the fingerboard. Frets are placed at specific locations along the fretboard, with each fret representing one half step in the Western tonal scale.

At the bottom of the body is an assembly called the bridge, a large metal assembly into which one end of the strings are fitted. On some designs, the strings are fasted through the back of the body into the bridge; on others, the strings fit into the front side of the bridge. Inside the body is a cavity that contains the electrical components of the bass. The bridge often has adjustments that allow the height of the strings to be changed. In addition to the bridge, the other components found on the body include one or more pickups and various knobs or switches that control the sound of the bass.

The pickups are magnetic devices that sit below the strings. As the strings vibrate, an electrical signal is produced which is routed via an instrument cable to an amplifier. Pickups are either "passive", which means they send the signal with no additional amplification, or "active", which process the signal through a pre-amplifier. Some basses feature pickups that can be set to passive or active mode. Basses that have two pickups (generally referred to as bridge and neck pickups) often have a switch that enables the player to select neck-only, bridge-only, or a blended signal. Each pickup may have different tonal qualities that results from its placement relative to the bridge and its components.

At the other end of the fretboard from the body sits the headstock, which generally holds the tuners that permit the player to adjust the tuning of the strings. At the very end the fretboard, where the strings pass from the fretboard to the tuners, we find the nut, a piece made of metal or plastic, with grooves to hold the strings off the fretboard.

Inside most fretboards is a long metal rod, called a trussrod, that is used to adjust the tension on the neck. It is generally desirably to have the neck bowed slightly concave, so that the strings will clear all frets without "buzzing." The amount of bow, along with adjustments made on the bridge, will determine the height of the strings along the fretboard. 

The scale of an electric bass - the length of the strings from the nut to the bridge - is generally 34 inches (84 centimeters), although shorter and longer basses are produced. In earlier decades, short-scale basses were more common, since many designers adapted guitar parts for early models. Because in some styles of music, such as heavy metal, the strings are tuned down, longer scaled basses are sometimes favored for such styles, since string tension is higher. 

Standard bass guitars have four metal strings, but models with five, six or eight strings are also made. The strings themselves are manufactured in different ways and with different materials to change their tonal qualities.

In the 1960s and 1970s some musicians took the frets off their bass guitars: taking the frets off a bass guitar changes the sound of the bass, particularly as the player slides their fingers along the strings. A bass guitar without frets is called a fretless bass guitar, and are favored by some bassists: for instance, Pino Palladino, whose performance on the fretless bass during the 1980s made him a highly desirable session player backing high profile musicians like Eric Clapton and David Gilmour. While fretless basses are common with jazz and jazz fusion, bassists from other genres use fretless basses, such as metal bassist Steve DiGiorgio and Colin Edwin of modern/progressive rock band [Porcupine Tree].

The standard design for the electric bass guitar has four strings, generally tuned E, A, D and G (low to high). It is not uncommon for players to tune strings to a lower pitch, particularly in styles, such as heavy metal, that favor deeper sounds. Five string basses add a lower string, usually tune to B, while six-string-basses add a higher string tuned to C. In standard tunings, each string is tuned a perfect fourth interval above the next lower string (e.g. E to A). 

Sounds are produced from the strings in a number of ways. The most common form of playing is called fingerstyle, in which the player plucks the fingers upwards with the ends of the fingers. It is common to use the index and middle fingers as the plucking fingers, but players may use more fingers or even employ their thumb to pluck downwards. Other finger-based techniques include slap-and-pop, in which the player strikes the lower-pitched strings firmly with their thumb, and pulls higher-pitched strings upwards and lets them snap against the fretboard, and tapping, in which the player hammers downward with their fingertips on the fretboard.

Picks made of metal or plastic may also be used, and generally yield a sharper sound than plucking with fingers. Picking is sometimes combined with muting techniques to create distinctive sounds.

The bridge of the bass guitar may be fitted with a tremolo, which enables the player to vary the pitch of their strings while playing. 

Where the strings are struck relative to bridge changes to the tone of the sound considerably. Plucking or picking close the bridge generally produces a more muted note, while sounding the string closer to the neck produces a fuller, more resonant tone.

Bass guitars also have magnetic pickups mounted on the body underneath the strings. A musician plucks the strings with their fingers. This makes the strings vibrate. The magnetic pickups detect the vibrations. Then the vibrations from the strings are converted into an electronic signal which is sent with a metal cable to an electronic amplifier and a loudspeaker. The musician rotates a volume control knob that is located on the body of the bass to make the sound of a bass guitar loud or quiet.



</doc>
<doc id="14410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14410" title="Saint Anna">
Saint Anna

Saint Anna is the mother of Virgin Mary and the grandmother of Jesus. Her husband is Saint Joachim. Her name is a version of the Hebrew name "Hanna".

According to tradition, Joachim went to a temple to pray but was not allowed in because he did not have a child. Anna heard, prayed, and sacrificed. She promised God that she would bring up a child up in God's name. An angel came to Anna and Joachim and told them that God would grant her a baby. Anna had the baby soon after, and named the girl Mary. Anna kept her promise. When Mary was about three years old, Joachim and Anna brought her up in the Second Temple.

Saint Anna was hanged because she hid a priest and held masses in her own house secretly and because of her beliefs. She died at the age of 79, while her husband died at age 80


</doc>
<doc id="14411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14411" title="Nepal">
Nepal

Nepal (Nepali: नेपाल) is a country in South Asia bordering the Republic of India and the People's Republic of China. Mount Everest, the highest mountain in the world, is found there, as well as the Himalaya Mountains. 12 of the world's 18 highest mountain peaks are in Nepal. It is also birth place of Buddha, founder of Buddhism. It has recently become a secular country, but it used to be the only Hindu nation the world. Nepal is a very important pilgrimage place for both Hindus and Buddhists. The population of Nepal in 2007 was almost 29 million people.

Nepali is the official language, and there are many other regional languages. English and Hindi are widely understood. The capital city of Nepal is Kathmandu which has a population of over two million people. The second largest city is Pokhara. Pokhara has many lakes, including Phewa Tal.

Nepal used to be an agricultural country till 1950. Since 1951 it entered the modern era and has made progress. Agriculture, however is a major economic activity, employing 80% of the population and providing 37% of GDP. Only about 20% of the total area is cultivable; another 33% is forested; most of the rest is mountainous. Rice and wheat are the main food crops. The lowland Terai region produces an agricultural surplus, part of which supplies the food-deficient hill areas.

Even though China is the 2nd largest exporter to Nepal, yet unlike India which is the largest buyer of Nepal's goods, China's imports from Nepal are zero, thus burdening Nepal's monetary stability and monetary balance. The annual monsoon rain, or lack of it, strongly influences economic growth. From 1996 to 1999, real GDP growth averaged less than 4%. The growth rate recovered in 1999, rising to 6% before slipping slightly in 2001 to 5.5%.

Modern education in Nepal began with the establishment of the first school in 1853; this school was only for the members of the ruling families and their courtiers. Schooling for the general people began only after 1951 when a popular movement ended the autocratic Rana family regime and initiated a democratic system. In the past 50 years, there has been a dramatic expansion of education facilities in the country. As a result, adult literacy (age 15+) of the country was reported to be 48.2% (female: 34.6%, male: 62.2%) in the Population Census, 2001, up from about 5% in 1952–54. Beginning from about 300 schools and two colleges with about 10,000 students in 1951, there now are 26,000 schools (including higher secondary), 415 colleges, five universities, and two academies of higher studies. Altogether 5.5 million students are enrolled in those schools and colleges who are served by more than 150,000 teachers.
Despite such examples of success, there are problems and challenges. Education management, quality, relevance, access are some of the critical issues of education in Nepal. Societal disparities based on gender, ethnicity, location, economic class, etc. are yet to be eliminated. Resource crunch has always been a problem in education. These problems have made the goal of education for all a challenge for the country.



</doc>
<doc id="14412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14412" title="Zagreb">
Zagreb

Zagreb is the capital city and the largest city of the country of Croatia. It has a population of 792.000 people and its metropolitan area (Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorje County and Sisak-Moslavina County) has a population of 1.2 million (2005).

Zagreb is officially twinned with the following towns and cities:



</doc>
<doc id="14415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14415" title="Swedish">
Swedish

Swedish is a person or a object that comes from the country Sweden. It could also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="14416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14416" title="Swedish krona">
Swedish krona

The Swedish kronor is the money of Sweden. Sweden has had this money since 1873. In English the Swedish krona means Crown. The Swedish crowns consist of:


This is all the Swedish money there is. 

<nowiki>*</nowiki>Not in use since:
<nowiki>**Not known when ended.</nowiki>

On December 18 2008, the Swedish Riksbank asked to phase out the 50 öre, the final öre coin, by 2010. Note, however that the öre would remain as a subdivision unit for electronic payments

Exchange rate of Swedish kronor against the Euro
The krona stand to an average of ten crowns to one euro

The Riksbank decided in 17 February 2010, to recommend the parliament to allow it to issue a 2-krona coin and a 200-krona note, the latter a new denomination for the country. However it did not recommend replacing the 20-krona note with a coin.



</doc>
<doc id="14417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14417" title="Giant">
Giant

In mythology, a giant is a type of very large human-like creature. The mythology and legends of many different cultures have mythological animals or monsters that look like very big, very strong humans. One example of a giant is the "gigantes" of Greek mythology.


</doc>
<doc id="14421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14421" title="Piedmont">
Piedmont

Piedmont is a region in the northern part of Italy. The capital is Turin. Piedmont has 8 provinces within it. 

In the north of Piedmont there is the country of Switzerland and the Italian region of Valle d'Aosta, in the east there are the regions of Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna, in the west there is France and in the south Liguria.

Piedmont is divided into 8 provinces:



</doc>
<doc id="14423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14423" title="Terry Fox">
Terry Fox

Terrence Stanley Fox (July 28, 1958 - June 28, 1981) was a Canadian athlete and activist. He lost one of his legs to cancer at the age of 18. He is most famous for his run, called "The Marathon of Hope", which began on April 12, 1980 in St. John's, Newfoundland, the purpose of the run was to run across Canada (with help of an artificial leg) about (the length of the average marathon, or foot race) each day. He originally wanted to run until he got to Vancouver Island on the other end of Canada. The goal was to raise 1 million Canadian dollars and later one dollar for every person in Canada to help cancer research, 

Many people supported and helped him during his run, and had a lot of faith in him, but on August 31, 1980, near the town of Thunder Bay, Ontario, Terry's cancer resurfaced in his lungs. He had to stop running. 

Fox died on , exactly a month before his 23rd birthday. He is considered a hero in Canada. People still hold runs for him. Shortly before his death, he was made a Companion in the Order of Canada (the youngest person in the country to receive such an honor). In addition, there is a statue of him in Ottawa (Canada's capital), near Parliament Hill. Several schools named after him and he has been featured on a Canadian $1 coin.





</doc>
<doc id="14424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14424" title="Rick Hansen">
Rick Hansen

Rick Hansen (August 26, 1957) is a Canadian athlete and activist. He was paralyzed in an accident at the age of 15. Inspired by his friend Terry Fox, who tried to run across Canada after losing a leg to cancer, he set out on a trip to travel around the world, in his wheelchair; it was called the "Man in Motion" tour. The money he raised from that tour went to help spinal cord injury research and parapelgic sports. He still works and does charity to raise money & awareness.



</doc>
<doc id="14432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14432" title="Fin">
Fin

A fin is a surface used to produce lift and thrust or to steer while traveling in water, air, or other fluid media. The word was first used for the limbs of fish, but it is now also used when describing other animal limbs and man-made devices.


</doc>
<doc id="14435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14435" title="Method">
Method

Method may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="14436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14436" title="Region">
Region

Region is a geographic term used in many ways in the different types of geography. In general, a region is a medium-scale area of land or water. It is smaller than the whole area of something (which could be, for example, the world, a nation, a mountain range, and so on). It is larger than a specific location. A region can be seen as a collection of smaller things (as in "the New England states") or as one part of a larger whole (as in "the New England region of the United States").


</doc>
<doc id="14437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14437" title="1514">
1514




</doc>
<doc id="14438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14438" title="Toothache">
Toothache

A toothache is a pain felt in a person's tooth, normally when the tooth is hurt. A tooth can be hurt by tooth decay caused by plaque or by an injury.


</doc>
<doc id="14439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14439" title="Icing">
Icing

"For the ice hockey rule, see Icing (ice hockey)."
Icing is a paste that is usually made from sugar. It is also called "frosting". It is put on cakes to add flavour. Many kinds of cake have icing, especially cakes made for special occasions like birthday cakes, wedding cakes and Christmas cake. Icing can also be a hockey term. 


</doc>
<doc id="14440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14440" title="Juan Ponce de Leon">
Juan Ponce de Leon

Juan Ponce de Leon ( 1474 - July 1521) was a Spanish explorer. He was born in Santervás de Campos. De Leon is most famous for discovering the land that is Florida today.De Leon got the name from la Florida or "the land of flowers". De Leon also invented cassava bread. This is a type of bread made from the cassava plant. It can be kept for a longer time than normal bread. This bread was liked by most sailors crossing the Atlantic Ocean. De Leon sailed with Christopher Columbus on the Columbus's second voyage to the New World. He also became governor of Puerto Rico years later. He started other colonies in the area. De Leon wanted to find the fountain of youth but never did.He was the first European to set foot on Florida. 


</doc>
<doc id="14443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14443" title="Romford">
Romford

Romford is a place in the east London Borough of Havering, England. It was first recorded as a town in 1153 in the "Red Book of the Exchequer". The name "Romford" means "wide ford". The stream that flows through it was only later called "the Rom River" after the town. 

In medieval times, this town was granted the right to have the only market for 6 2/3 miles around. This rule was used in the 1990s to stop a nearby suburb, Ilford, from opening a market nearby.


</doc>
<doc id="14446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14446" title="Maltose">
Maltose

Maltose (known as malt sugar) is a disaccharide (sometimes called di-glucose). It is formed from two glucose molecules joined together at carbons 1 and 4.


</doc>
<doc id="14447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14447" title="Toolbox">
Toolbox

A toolbox or toolkit is a box where a person stores tools. You can find them where people work with tools, like houses that are being built.

Some computer programs used to make other computer programs are also called toolboxes or toolkits (this is a metaphor).


</doc>
<doc id="14449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14449" title="Stone">
Stone

Stones are pieces of rocks, which can be fragments of a mountain. A stone is larger than a grain of sand, a pebble or gravel. It is smaller than a rock or boulder.


</doc>
<doc id="14450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14450" title="Hotspot (computers)">
Hotspot (computers)

A hotspot is a place where computers with the ability for wireless connections can connect to the Internet. Hot spots can be found in some public areas, sometimes for free. Some local libraries, coffee shops, and restaurants now offer hotspots.


</doc>
<doc id="14459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14459" title="Winnipeg">
Winnipeg

Winnipeg () is the capital and largest city of Manitoba, Canada. It is in the eastern prairie region of Western Canada. It is often called the "Gateway to the West".

Winnipeg is located at the crossing of the Red and Assiniboine rivers. That area is known as the "The Forks". Winnipeg is also close to Lake Winnipeg. 

In 2011, the Atlanta Thrashers hockey team will move into Winnipeg and become the Winnipeg Jets. The first Jets team moved to Phoenix, Arizona in the 1990s and became the Phoenix Coyotes.



</doc>
<doc id="14463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14463" title="Category:1514">
Category:1514


</doc>
<doc id="14465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14465" title="Category:1460 births">
Category:1460 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1460.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14466" title="Category:1460">
Category:1460


</doc>
<doc id="14470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14470" title="Kilobyte">
Kilobyte

A kilobyte is a number used to measure storage space on computer hard drives or computer memory. A kilobyte originally meant 1000 bytes. Over time the meaning changed and today it is often used to mean 1024 bytes. This created some confusion as a "kilo" should mean 1000. The International Electrotechnical Commission now defines a kilobyte as being 1000 bytes. The correct name for 1,024 bytes is a kibibyte.


</doc>
<doc id="14471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14471" title="Byte">
Byte

A byte is a unit of measurement. One byte is usually equal to eight bits. Technically, some old computers had bytes with different numbers of bits. An octet is always eight bits. One byte can be any number from 0 to 255. Bytes are used when talking about the size of computer, or other electronic data (information). 

"Byte" is properly abbreviated as uppercase "B". 

Sometimes it is incorrectly abbreviated as lowercase "b"; lowercase "b" is the abbreviation for "bit". For example, "MB" means "megabyte" and "Mb" means "megabit". The difference is important because 1 megabyte (MB) is 1,000,000 bytes, and 1 megabit (Mb) is 1,000,000 bits. It's easy to confuse the two, but bits are much smaller than bytes, so a lowercase "b" should be used when referring to "bits" and an uppercase "B" when referring to "bytes".

For large data, byte is often used with a binary prefix:

According to the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), who sets many computer standards, these charts show how bytes should be referred to.

When using standard metric names like "kilo-", "mega-" and "giga-", they should follow the same measure that other metric measurements use, like kilometer (1 kilometer = 1,000 meters) for example.
Since most computers are digital devices that are based on the binary numeral system rather than the commonly-used decimal numeral system or binary coded decimal system, there are many situations where the standard metric system does not work well, particularly with USB drives and other types of flash memory or RAM. If a memory or storage device uses a binary number for addresses, the number of different positions to be accessed can be expressed as a power of 2, rather than a power of 10. 

People who refer to 1 kilobyte as 1,024 bytes, for example, are technically incorrect; 1,024 bytes should be referred to as 1 kibibyte, according to the IEC. 


</doc>
<doc id="14472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14472" title="Subatomic particle">
Subatomic particle

A subatomic particle is a particle smaller than an atom. This means it is very, very small. Like atoms and molecules, a subatomic particle is far too small to be seen with the naked eye. It is also very interesting to scientists who try to understand atoms better. Some examples of subatomic particles are: protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks and leptons. Protons and neutrons are made up of quarks which are smaller particles. Electrons are examples of leptons.

These particles are often held together within an atom by one of the four fundamental forces (gravity, electromagnetic force, strong force, or weak force), and outside of the atom the particles often move very, very quickly- near the speed of light which is very, very fast. Subatomic particles are divided into two groups, Baryons and Leptons.

Baryons have more things than leptons. They have a given Baryon number. In reactions, the Baryon number must be conserved, meaning that both the starting and ending sides of a reaction must have the same number of Baryons. Baryonic particles are made up of a combination of the six quarks, which are among the most basic particles. The six quark types are up, down (which make up protons and neutrons), strange, charm, top, and bottom.

Leptons are generally much smaller than Baryons. This category includes electrons, Muons, Taus and neutrinos. Leptons are not made up of quarks, and are not divisible. 

In addition to these, there are also anti-particles, which have the same mass as their normal counterparts, except they have the opposite charge. Anti-matter and matter cannot exist near each other. Whenever matter and antimatter collide, they destroy each other with a huge release of energy equivalent to E=mc, where m is the combined mass of the particles, c is the speed of light, and E is the energy produced. These collisions often take place in large particle accelerators, where the energy can turn back into matter by the same equation. This can produce many odd particles that exist only for a short time.

Most of the particles discovered are created by accelerating particles and colliding them against others, creating huge showers of new subatomic particles which decay extremely quickly. However, because the particles are moving close to the speed of light, they obey the law of special relativity, and undergo time dilation. This means that time passes slower for the particle, and they can travel (and be measured) over a longer distance than scientists might predict.


</doc>
<doc id="14473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14473" title="Screen">
Screen

A screen can be:



</doc>
<doc id="14474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14474" title="Breathing">
Breathing

Breathing is the means by which our lungs remove carbon dioxide (CO) take in oxygen, a gas needed along with glucose to produce energy. The air going in and out of the mouth or nose when animals "breathe" is called the "breath". Without breathing, you will die.

CO must be removed because it is a waste product and is too much CO is poisonous.

The air humans breathe passes into the two lungs, which are protected inside the rib cage. The lungs take oxygen from the air and pass it into our bloodstream. Our blood takes oxygen all around the body.
When we breathe out, the lungs get rid of used air. Adults breathe about 18 times a minute, which is more than 25,000 times a day. Children breathe even faster. 

People who suffer from "asthma", or other breathing incidents that are dangerous, often use an inhaler to help them. The inhaler puffs a drug down into the windpipe. This makes the air passages wider and then can breathe more better than before. 


</doc>
<doc id="14475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14475" title="Laura Bush">
Laura Bush

Laura Bush (born Laura Lane Welch on November 4, 1946 in Midland, Texas) was the First Lady (The President's Wife) of the United States from 2001 to 2009. She is the wife of George W. Bush, who was the President then. Mrs. Bush is the only child of Harold Bruce Welch (1912-1995) and Jenna Louise Hawkins(born 1919). Laura and George met and married in 1977. She is the mother of Barbara and Jenna Bush, who were born in 1981. Before she became First Lady she worked as a librarian and a school teacher in Dallas and Austin, Texas.



</doc>
<doc id="14477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14477" title="Dijon">
Dijon

Dijon is a big city in France. Dijon is the capital city in the province Burgundy.

Dijon began as a Roman settlement called Divio. Saint Benignus (Saint Kelly), the city's patron saint, is said to have spread Christianity to the area before being killed. It was home to the Dukes of Burgundy from the early 11th century until the late 1400's and was a place of great wealth and power and one of the great European centers of art, learning and science.

Dijon is twinned with:


</doc>
<doc id="14478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14478" title="Simon Rodia">
Simon Rodia

Sabato "Simon" Rodia (1879–1965) was an Italian immigrant who lived in the United States in the district of Los Angeles, California, called Watts. Starting in 1921 and until 1954, he built the Watts Towers, from junk and things he found. Many people made fun of him and tried to vandalize (damage) the "towers". He did not like people making fun of him. In 1955 he moved away from Watts and never returned. The "towers" remained, and the site where he built them is now a national landmark.


</doc>
<doc id="14479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14479" title="Terry Southern">
Terry Southern

Terry Southern (May 1, 1924 – October 29, 1995) was an American writer.


</doc>
<doc id="14483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14483" title="Category:1724 births">
Category:1724 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1724.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14484" title="Category:1804 deaths">
Category:1804 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="14487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14487" title="Template:User pt">
Template:User pt

<includeonly>
</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="14488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14488" title="1615">
1615



</doc>
<doc id="14489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14489" title="Emeril Lagasse">
Emeril Lagasse

Emeril Lagasse (born October 15, 1959-) is an American celebrity chef. He is best known for his television program "Emeril Live!", which airs on the Food Network. He also has several restaurants and wrote some cookbooks. He is also famous for his catchphrases "Bam!" and "Kick it up a notch!"


</doc>
<doc id="14493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14493" title="Category:1983 births">
Category:1983 births


</doc>
<doc id="14494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14494" title="Category:1917 deaths">
Category:1917 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="14498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14498" title="Artificial limb">
Artificial limb

An artificial limb is a fake limb (arm or leg) used by people who have lost them in accidents or due to health problems (amputees) or were born without them, so that they can do normal things. They are also called prosthetics. They used to be made of wood and metal, but now they are made of lighter materials.


</doc>
<doc id="14500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14500" title="Hurricane Rita">
Hurricane Rita

Hurricane Rita was a powerful hurricane in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season that hit the United States' Gulf Coast. At its peak intensity, it was a strong Category 5 storm with sustained winds of 175 miles per hour. It made landfall as a Category 3 storm, and caused more flooding in New Orleans, which already had weakened levees due to Hurricane Katrina. In addition, it caused massive power outages.



</doc>
<doc id="14502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14502" title="Boeing 767">
Boeing 767

The Boeing 767 is a passenger airplane manufactured by Boeing. The Boeing 767 is Boeing's smallest widebody (an aircraft which has two aisles), larger than the Boeing 757 but smaller than the 777. The passengers sit two across, aisle, three across, aisle, and then two across.

The first airplane, American Airlines, Flight 11 to hit the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001 was a Boeing 767.

American, United, Delta, Continental, British Airways and other airlines operate Boeing 767s. The 767 can have engines supplied by Rolls-Royce, General Electric or Pratt and Whitney. 

The Boeing 767 was produced from 1981 and remains in production today. Boeing will replace the 767 with the 787.


</doc>
<doc id="14503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14503" title="1557">
1557

England an France started a war called the Anglo-French War of (1557 1560).



</doc>
<doc id="14504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14504" title="Stephen King">
Stephen King

Stephen King (born September 21, 1947) is a famous writer from the U.S. state of Maine. He is known for writing scary books known as horror novels. His books and stories have sold more than 300 million copies Many of his stories have been made into movies or television shows as well. He has written some of his books under the name "Richard Bachman" and collaborated with Peter Straub on others.

His most famous books are the seven novels of the "The Dark Tower" series.

Stephen King was born in Portland, Maine. His mother's name is Nellie Ruth and his father's name is Donald Edwin King. 
King and his wife Tabitha own three different houses. One house is in Bangor, Maine, one is in Lovell, Maine and one in Sarasota, Florida. Stephen and Tabitha have three children and three grandchildren.


</doc>
<doc id="14506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14506" title="Baby">
Baby

A baby is a very young human who is usually born after coming out of a woman. A child is a month old, a baby until he or she is about three years old, and a preschooler between 3 years old and school.

An "infant" is a human child at the youngest stage of life. Some people say that infancy is until someone can walk, while some say infancy is the time before the age of one. An infant less than 1 month old is a "newborn". Newborns can be premature infants, post-mature infants and full term newborns. The word "infant" comes from Latin, meaning "unable to speak".

After learning to walk, infants are called toddlers, usually when they are 1-3 years old.
Sometimes, a women may miscarry a baby and the baby (no matter what gender) is given the name stillborn or is called a miscarried child.


</doc>
<doc id="14508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14508" title="Cactus">
Cactus

A cactus is a kind of plant. The plural of cactus can be cacti or cactuses or cactus. In science all genera of cacti (as the whole) are named Cactaceae.

Cacti first came from North America or South America. Many people like to grow cactus in pots or gardens. Now cacti have spread to many other parts of the world.They are part of a very important food chain.
Many cacti live in dry places, such as deserts. Most cacti have and sharp thorns (stickers) and thick skin. There are many shapes and sizes of cacti. Some are short and round; others are tall and thin. Many cactus flowers are big and beautiful. Some cactus flowers bloom at night and are pollinated by moths and bats. Some cactus fruits are brightly coloured and good to eat. Goats, birds, ants, mice, bats and people eat cactus fruits. 

An adaptation is anything that helps a living thing survive and make more of its own kind. Cactuses have many adaptations for living in places that are sometimes dry for a long time. At other times these places can get lots of rain.

Cacti can have many small, thin roots near the top of the soil. These roots take in water quickly after a rain. The same cactus may have one long, thick root called a taproot. The taproot grows deep in the soil. It can reach water when the soil on top is dry.

Cacti store water in thick stems. The stems are covered with tough skin, and the skin is covered with wax. The thick waxy skin slows down loss of water. The leaves of cacti are sharp spines (thorns, stickers). Many animals want the water inside the cactus, but the sharp spines and thick skin protect the cactus.

Cacti are commonly grown as houseplants. They are pretty and easy to grow. Some cacti are grown in gardens, especially in dry areas. Cactus can be used as a living fence. The wood of dead cactus is sometimes used for building.

People eat the fruit of some kinds of cactus, such as dragonfruit and prickly pear. Ciouvhiul insects also eat prickly pears. These insects produce a red coloring used in food and lipstick.

The ancient Aztecs of South America held cactus to be very important. Cactus can be found in many of their sculptures and drawings. The national coat of arms of Mexico shows an eagle, a snake, and cactus.

Christopher Columbus brought the first cactus to Europe. Scientists and gardeners became very interested in cactus.

Prickly pears were taken to Australia in the 19th century for use as a natural fence and for use in the cochineal industry. The cactus spread out of control. Now it has made 40,000 km² of land useless for farming.

From the start of the 20th century interest in cactus has grown. Every year, scientists discover new kinds of cactus. A bad effect of this bigger interest has been the digging up of many cacti from the wild, making some kinds endangered.

A cactus does not have leaves because it lives in dry places. Leaves transpire, and this can waste water. So, the cactus saves water by having no leaves. The green parts of the cactus are actually its stems. Because the stems are green, they do the photosynthesis for the cactus. They also grow prickly needles to protect the cactus from animals that want to eat it.

Family contains more than 100 genera. Some of them:



</doc>
<doc id="14509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14509" title="Desert">
Desert

A desert biome is an area that receives less than 25cm (about 9.8 inches) of rainfall a year. Deserts are found in the western part of North America, Western Asia, Central Australia, and along the coast of South America. There are hot deserts in Africa, such as the Sahara, with scorching hot weather during the day and chilly nights.

There are also cold deserts in South America, such as the Atacama, which may have below-freezing temperatures throughout the day and night. Deserts are very dry places. Most of a desert is made up of sand or snow, sand dunes or snowdrifts, and cacti or very small plants. Deserts cover about 33% of the land on earth.

There are hot deserts and cold deserts. Cold deserts are covered with snow or ice. Some cold deserts have a short season of above-freezing temperatures. These deserts are called tundra. If the temperature of cold deserts remains below freezing year-round, they are called ice cap. 

Cold deserts can be found close to the poles. That is why they are also called polar deserts. Other regions of the world have cold deserts too, for instance high altitude areas like the Himalayas. These are called montane deserts. Antarctica is the world's largest cold desert.

Hot deserts can be covered by sand, rock, salt lakes, stony hills and even mountains. Most non-polar deserts are hot in the day and chilly at night. The temperature in the daytime can reach 50 °C or higher in the summer, and dip to 0 °C or lower at nighttime in the winter. 

The driest hot desert in the world is the Atacama Desert in South America. In the Atacama Desert it did not rain for 401 years, between 1570 and 1971.

The largest hot desert of the world is the Sahara in North Africa. It is almost as large as Europe or the United States. The Sahara is also the hottest desert in the world.
It does rain in the desert, but not often. In the Atacama Desert it did not rain for 401 years. In other deserts it may rain every year or once every few years. When it rains in a desert, a lot of water may reach the ground in a short time. Some rain passes straight into the dry sand, but the rest may form a river. Stream channels that are normally dry, can quickly fill after heavy rains, causing a flash flood.
A sandstorm or dust storm arises when wind blows loose sand and dust from a dry surface. Clouds of sand or dust are often so dense that they obscure the sun. A sandstorm can move whole sand dunes.
There are not many animals in the desert, but some animals have learned to survive in various ways. They have different ways to survive the intense conditions of the desert. Examples of animals that live in hot deserts are lizards, small rodents, snakes, and camels. Plants and animals in hot deserts must live with very little water. 

Xerophytic plants which live in the desert have special adaptations. They may survive by growing roots that are very near the surface to absorb the rain that may fall before it evaporates. Plants such as the cactus have thick, fleshy stems that help them store water. 

Animals such as lizards and small rodents often escape the hot rays by digging underground burrows where they live. They only come out at night to search for food. Like the plants, desert animals must live on as little water as possible. Most of the water used by these animals comes from seeds and stems that absorb and hold water. Camels survive in hot deserts by storing water in body fat in their humps. Like other desert animals, the camel loses little water in wastes.


</doc>
<doc id="14510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14510" title="Dessert">
Dessert

A dessert is a type of food that is eaten after lunch or dinner. It is usually a sweet food, like ice cream, cookies, and cakes. In some countries, cheeses such as Brie cheese and fruit are served as dessert. Some desserts are decorated, like birthday cakes. Others are simple, like pudding. Many desserts are baked (cooked in an oven). Some desserts are served with whipped cream as a topping.

Baked desserts are made by putting the ingredients in a hot oven. Baked desserts include cakes and muffins (a mixture of flour, eggs, sugar, oil, baking powder, and flavorings); sweet breads such as banana bread and raisin bread (a mixture of flour, sugar, oil, baking powder, and flavorings); cookies such as chocolate chip cookies (a mixture of flour, eggs, sugar, oil, and flavorings). Puddings and custards (a mixture of milk, eggs, sugar, and flavorings) can be made in the oven, 
Fried desserts are made using a cooking process called deep frying. To deep-fry food, a large pot filled with oil is heated, and then the food is placed into the pot. Deep-fried desserts include doughnuts.

Frozen desserts are made by blending the ingredients in a freezer. Frozen desserts include ice cream (a mixture of cream, milk, sugar, and flavorings), milk shakes (a mixture of ice cream, milk, and flavorings), and sherbet (also spelled "sorbet") (a mixture of water, sugar, and flavorings).

Some desserts are made without using the oven or the freezer. Trifle is an English dessert made by soaking ladyfinger biscuits in sherry, covering them with whipped cream, and then letting it chill in the refrigerator. Some types of instant pudding and instant mousse desserts can be made without cooking; a person simply mixes the instant pudding powder with milk and chills it in the refrigerator.


</doc>
<doc id="14512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14512" title="William Henry Harrison">
William Henry Harrison

William Henry Harrison (born February 9, 1773, died April 4, 1841) was the 9th President of the United States. His nickname was "Ol' Tippy Canoe " and he was a well-respected war veteran. He was president in 1841 for only one month, because he caught a cold, got sick and later died. He was the first President to die in office.



</doc>
<doc id="14515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14515" title="Viacom">
Viacom

Viacom is an entertainment company. It started in the 1970s as the syndication division of CBS TV (which they now own). They also the owners of Paramount Pictures, Blockbuster Entertainment, Spelling Productions, MTV, Nickelodeon, Neopets, and others.


</doc>
<doc id="14516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14516" title="Uniform Resource Locator">
Uniform Resource Locator

Uniform Resource Locator (URL) is another name for a web address. URLs are made of letters, numbers and other symbols in a standard form. People use them on computers by clicking a pre-prepared link or typing one into a web browser, to make the computer fetch and show some specific resource (usually a web page) from another computer (web server) on the Internet.

URLs consist of several parts:

In some cases, the URL may also contain

The URL of this page is <nowiki>http://simple.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Uniform_Resource_Locator</nowiki>


A shorter form, called a "relative" URL, is used when a computer could correctly fill in the full ("absolute") URL from context. For example <nowiki>/wiki/URL</nowiki> only works for a link on wikipedia to this page on wikipedia. Absolute URLs can be shared outside of computers, even with little or no explanation.

These are at the end of the domain name which has a period mark before it. At first there were six main extensions:
Today, there are many other URL extensions. These are usually either a top level domain or interest grouping. Each country has its own top level domain, for example, .ca for Canada, .us for the United States of America or .co.uk for the United Kingdom. Many countries have a government-only extension, for example the United States uses .gov or .fed.us, .gc.ca for Canada and .gov.uk for the United Kingdom. Interest group domains would include .tv (television), .pro (professionals) and .xxx (pornography). These are not used as often as the original extensions.


</doc>
<doc id="14517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14517" title="Category:1841 deaths">
Category:1841 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="14518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14518" title="Category:1841">
Category:1841


</doc>
<doc id="14519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14519" title="Category:1773 births">
Category:1773 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1773.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14520" title="Category:1773">
Category:1773


</doc>
<doc id="14521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14521" title="Category:1782 births">
Category:1782 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1782.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14522" title="Category:1782">
Category:1782


</doc>
<doc id="14523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14523" title="Category:1862 deaths">
Category:1862 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="14524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14524" title="Category:1862">
Category:1862


</doc>
<doc id="14525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14525" title="Category:1856 births">
Category:1856 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1856.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14526" title="Category:1856">
Category:1856


</doc>
<doc id="14527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14527" title="Cuckoo clock">
Cuckoo clock

A cuckoo clock is a kind of clock. Cuckoo clocks have a wooden case that looks like a small house, and there are wooden doors that open. It gets its name because at the start of every hour, the small doors on the clock open up and a little wooden bird comes out of the door. The clock then makes a noise which sounds like a bird call ( "Koo-Koo" or "cuckoo"). 

The clock makes the sound one time for each hour it is. Whether it is morning or night does not change the number of times the bird makes the sound. 
For example:


</doc>
<doc id="14528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14528" title="Labrador Retriever">
Labrador Retriever

The Labrador Retriever (or Lab and Labrador for short) is a breed of dog.

Labrador Retrievers are very gentle dogs with family-friendly personalities. They enjoy attention and exercise with their owner. This dog is great with children. They love to run around in big, open spaces, have a natural love of bringing things back, and learn to retrieve easily. They love to be active. They like the water no matter what temperature outside as their coat protects them. They are strong swimmers as they have webbing between the toes on their paws. They come in five colors: black, yellow, and chocolate or brown. There are many different shades of "yellow" Labrador, including a type that looks bronze or dark orange.

This tough, hardy breed of retriever is a great choice as a family pet. They are playful, easy to train, and naturally obedient. Labrador Retrievers do require regular amounts of daily exercise and are prone to obesity. As a pet, they can be demanding of attention and are best suited in a home where they can have a daily workout. They like water and have a unique otter-like tail, which they use like a rudder when they swim.

The origin of the Labrador Retriever is unsure due to the many different theories to how the Labrador, as we know it, came to exist. A popular theory is that the Labrador's ancestors were brought to Newfoundland by English fisherman. These dogs were descendants of Newfoundland dogs brought to Europe and bred with Portuguese Water Dogs and other sports dogs.

Although there is only one type of Labrador Retriever recognized by the CKC (Canadian Kennel Club), many Labrador enthusiasts will argue that there are actually two types of Labradors. These can be broken down into the categories of English (Show) Dogs and American (Field) Dogs.Labs are fairly easy to train(with gentleness and patience), and make great family pets,but need to be acquainted with kids at an early age.They are very energetic dogs.


</doc>
<doc id="14529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14529" title="Margaret Thatcher">
Margaret Thatcher

Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher LG, OM, PC, FRS (born Margaret Hilda Roberts, 13 October 1925) was the first female Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. She stayed prime minister from 1979 to 1990. Leader of the Conservative Party from 1975 to 1990, she is often remembered by her nickname, "the Iron Lady". She directed British troops in 1982 to recapture the Falkland Islands from Argentina. Argentina had captured the Falklands for a short time during the Falklands War. She had the second longest single prime ministerial term in history. She married Sir Denis Thatcher; they had twins: son Mark and daughter Carol.

She suffered from strong opposition during a miner's strike in 1984 and 1985, which took away political power from the coal miners' union. There was also controversy when she tried to introduce a poll tax to Britain. This caused rioting across the country. The riots were one of the reasons she was replaced by John Major in 1990. In 1992, she became Baroness Thatcher of Kesteven, joining the House of Lords.

Thatcher is the only woman to hold the positions of Prime Minister and Conservative Party leader.


</doc>
<doc id="14530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14530" title="Firefighter">
Firefighter

Firefighters or firemen are people whose job is to put out fires and rescue people. In a city, the building they work in is called a "fire station", or "fire hall". Firefighters work for the "fire department".

There are firefighters in cities and towns who fight fires in houses and other buildings. These are called "structural firefighters". There are also firefighters who fight forest fires and grass fires.

In some places, they are also taught first aid and given medical training so they can help people in other ways. A paramedic or an emergency medical technician (EMT) are names for people who have first aid training and usually work on ambulances. paramedics and EMTs also work for fire departments. Some work for other agencies such as ambulance companies or hospitals to ride on ambulances. A lot of fire departments have ambulances to transport sick and injured people. Fire engines in some places go to medical emergencies because they might be closer and can give first aid before the ambulance gets there. A fire truck usually carries the same exact equipment as an ambulance does. Search and rescue is also done by many fire departments.

Firefighters have vehicles they drive fires and rescue operations. If the vehicle pumps water it is called an "engine". If it does not pump water it is called a "truck". A rescue truck mainly responds to and has equipment for car wrecks,collapsed buildings,search and rescue,stuck elevators and other things.If it carries the fire chief to fires, it is a fire chief car. Fire engines pump water and foam which is used to put out the fire. Fire trucks carry ladders and tools to help rescue people from burning buildings.Some engines carry first aid kits to help people who are injured or hurt. Fire engines can also carry tools and gear to rescue people from collapsed buildings,car accidents,stuck elevators, and many other situations. 

Firefighters must wear heavy clothing which protects them from the heat when they are fighting a fire. This is called "bunker gear" or "turnout gear".


</doc>
<doc id="14534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14534" title="Random">
Random

Random is a term used in mathematics, as well as in a more general use, for situations when there is no way to know the outcome (what will happen). Something that is chosen at random is not chosen for any special reason, but purely by chance. An example of a random act is a lottery.

A computer can make lists of random numbers. Humans are unable to do this, because the brain works in patterns. If someone is asked to keep saying "heads" or "tails" at random, a computer would soon be able to tell which one the person is likely to say next because the computer notices the patterns.

On a website such as English Wikipedia the user can click on "Random page" to get a random article. The chances of any one page appearing are exactly the same as for any other page.

Sometimes the word "random" is used more loosely. There are websites of random jokes, which just means: a variety of jokes about all sorts of things.

In recent years young people have started to use the word "random" even more loosely to describe anything which is rather strange or has no logic. Sentences such as "the mouldy cheese is escaping" or "I like pie and spam" might be described as "random", although this is not the proper dictionary or mathematical meaning of the word.

There are several ways in which a process or system can be seen as "random":


The many applications of randomness have led to many different methods for generating random data. These methods may vary as to how unpredictable or statistically random they are, and how quickly they can generate random numbers.

Before there were computational random number generators, generating large amounts of sufficiently random numbers (important in statistics) required a lot of work. Results would sometimes be collected and distributed as random number tables.

Computers can make what appear to be random numbers. There are two ways to make them.



</doc>
<doc id="14535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14535" title="Political status of Taiwan">
Political status of Taiwan

There are two countries in the world that are called China. One is the "People's Republic of China (China)" , the other is the "Republic of China (Taiwan)". The PRC claimed control over the island of Taiwan (which is also known as Taiwan province). The ROC includes all of China, including Taiwan and Mongolia.

People who live in Taiwan have different ideas. Taiwan has not been ruled by mainland China since 1949. Today, Taiwan has become a democracy. China, on the other hand, is ruled by a communist government. The communists' idea of freedom is different from what the democrats think freedom should be. Although few people in Taiwan want to be reunited with Communists' China, almost none of them want to give up their ideas of freedom, 
and they would not forget how and why did they fight for it. Although the people in Taiwan want Taiwan to formally become the Republic of Taiwan. But most of the people in Taiwan want to keep everything like it is now, and wait till the right time to formally become the Republic of Taiwan.

Today, most countries of the world recognize the PRC as China. This is because of the pressure Mainland China exerts on these countries. Most countries however still have a very close economic and cultural relationship with the people of Taiwan. The government of the PRC have said that if the people of Taiwan formally vote to become the Republic of Taiwan, they will invade Taiwan. 

In March of 2004, China's government passed a law that will allow China to invade Taiwan if the people of Taiwan formally vote to become the Republic of Taiwan. This law hurts the feelings of the people in Taiwan very much, especially since the government of China does not rule Taiwan. It has caused even more people in Taiwan not to want to be reunited with China.


</doc>
<doc id="14536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14536" title="Cellular respiration">
Cellular respiration

Cellular respiration is what cells do to break up sugars into a form that the cell can use as energy. This happens in all forms of life. Cellular respiration takes in food and uses it to create ATP, a chemical which the cell uses for energy. Regular cellular respiration is aerobic (requires oxygen), but some simple organisms can only do anaerobic cellular respiration.

The simplified formula for aerobic cellular respiration is 

CHO + 6O → 6CO + 6HO + Energy (as ATP)
The word equation for this is:
Glucose (sugar) + Oxygen → Carbon dioxide + Water + Energy (as ATP)

Aerobic cellular respiration has four stages. Each is important, but could not happen without those preceding it. The steps of cellular respiration are:

In glycolysis, glucose in the cytoplasm is broken into two molecules of pyruvate. Ten enzymes are needed for the ten intermediate compounds in this process.

Biology textbooks often state that 38 ATP molecules can be made per oxidised glucose molecule during cellular respiration (2 from glycolysis, 2 from the Krebs cycle, and about 34 from the electron transport system). However, this maximum yield is never quite reached due to losses (leaky membranes) as well as the cost of moving pyruvate and ADP into the mitochondrial matrix. Present estimates are 29 to 30 ATP per glucose.

Aerobic metabolism is 19 times more efficient than anaerobic metabolism (which yields 2 mol ATP per 1 mol glucose). They share the initial pathway of glycolysis but aerobic metabolism continues with the Krebs cycle and oxidative phosphorylation. The post glycolytic reactions take place in the mitochondria in eukaryotic cells, and in the cytoplasm in prokaryotic cells.

Pyruvate from glycolysis is actively pumped into mitochondria. One carbon dioxide molecule and one hydrogen molecule are removed from the pyruvate (called oxidative decarboxylation) to produce an acetyl group, which joins to an enzyme called CoA to form acetyl CoA. This is essential for the Krebs cycle.

Acetyl CoA joins with a chemical to form a compound made of 6 carbon atoms. This is the first step in the ever-repeating Krebs cycle, which produces on each cycle two molecules of ATP and two of CO. The ATP is a molecule which carries energy in chemical form to be used in other cell processes.

This is where most of the ATP is made. All of the hydrogen molecules which have been removed in the steps before (Krebs cycle, Link reaction) are pumped inside the mitochondria using energy that electrons release. Eventually, the electrons powering the pumping of hydrogen into the mitochondria mix with some hydrogen and oxygen to form water and the hydrogen molecules stop being pumped.

Eventually, the hydrogen flows back into the cytoplasm of the mitochondria through protein channels. As the hydrogen flows, ATP is made from ADP and phosphate ions.


</doc>
<doc id="14546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14546" title="Lesotho">
Lesotho

Lesotho is a small country in southern Africa. Its population is about 1,800,000.
The capital of Lesotho is called Maseru.

Lesotho has no coast on the sea nor on a lake. This type of country is called "landlocked", meaning it is surrounded by land. All of Lesotho's trade must either be flown in by aeroplane, or brought in by land.

If you look at a map of Lesotho, you will see something unusual: it is completely surrounded by the country of South Africa and has no borders with any other country. This type of country is called an "enclave". Enclave countries are very rare, but Lesotho is one. This makes Lesotho's relationship with South Africa very important to them both.

Lesotho has many mountains and is one of the most mountainous countries in the world. All of Lesotho is at least 1,400 m above sea level. People sometimes travel there to ski in winter. The many mountains in Lesotho mean that it rains there a lot. Lesotho uses some of its water to generate electricity and sells some of the water to South Africa.

Lesotho became a country in 1818, but it was then called Basutoland. A man called Moshoeshoe brought several of the groups of people in the area together and formed a new country with him as its king. This new country came under attack from its enemies and in 1868 Moshoeshoe asked Queen Victoria of Great Britain for help. Great Britain said it would help if Lesotho became part of the British Empire. 

Lesotho eventually gained its independence on 4 October 1966. Now it is a member of the British Commonwealth. King Letsie III is the ruler of Lesotho.


</doc>
<doc id="14551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14551" title="Alexander Hamilton">
Alexander Hamilton

Alexander Hamilton (born January 11, year unknown - probably 1755 or 1757–died July 12, 1804) was the United States' first Secretary of the Treasury, and was known for the creation of a national bank.

Hamilton was not born in the United States. He was from the Caribbean island of Nevis. His father was named James Hamilton and his mother was named Rachel Fawcett Lavien. Hamilton's mother had a child from a previous marriage that she left behind when she moved to Nevis. At the time, this meant that Hamilton was illegitimate since his mother and father were not legally married. He was very sensitive about this fact.
Hamilton graduated from Columbia University, which was known then as Kings College. He wanted to go to Princeton but was not accepted.

Hamilton was killed in 1804 in a duel with Vice President Aaron Burr.
Hamilton is shown on the face of the U.S. Ten dollar bill. He is one of only two non-Presidents (the other is Benjamin Franklin) honored on commonly used notes.


</doc>
<doc id="14552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14552" title="Category:5th century">
Category:5th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 5th century, which began in the year 401 and ended in the year 500.

Note that the year 500 is included in in the 6th century but is actually part of the 5th century.


</doc>
<doc id="14553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14553" title="Category:402">
Category:402


</doc>
<doc id="14554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14554" title="Category:404">
Category:404


</doc>
<doc id="14555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14555" title="Category:400s">
Category:400s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 400s which begins in the year 400 and ends in the year 409.

Note that 400 is actually the last year of the 4th century; 401 is the actual first year of the 5th century.


</doc>
<doc id="14556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14556" title="Category:491">
Category:491


</doc>
<doc id="14557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14557" title="Category:490s">
Category:490s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 490s which begins in the year 490 and ends in the year 499.


</doc>
<doc id="14559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14559" title="Category:400s births">
Category:400s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 400s, starting from the year 400 to the year 409.

Note that the year 400 is actually the last year in the 4th century; 401 is the first year in the 5th century.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="14560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14560" title="Category:5th century births">
Category:5th century births

This category is a list of people who were born in the 5th century, organized by the year in which they were born.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14561" title="Category:490s deaths">
Category:490s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 490s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="14562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14562" title="Category:5th century deaths">
Category:5th century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 5th century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14568" title="Köbes">
Köbes

Köbes is a word from the Rhineland from local Ripuarian and Limburgish-Bergisch languages.

It has two meanings:

A Köbes is the waiter who serves the Kölsch beer in Cologne or who serves the Alt beer of Düsseldorf and Krefeld.

One finds him only in brewery outlets and some specialized pubs.

Traditionally, a Köbes is dressed in blue, with a big leather belt and leather purse. If a guest sits down, the Köbes supplies beer, there is no order required. A Köbes continually replaces every empty glass with a full one, usually without asking. One must ask for the bill, or cover the glass, if you do not want more beer.

Expect Köbes to engage in short conversations or occasionally to tell, or make, jokes. Everyone can be subject of such jokes, the Köbes himself, his customers or other guests. If a Köbes includes them in jokes they do not hesitate to joke back on him.



</doc>
<doc id="14571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14571" title="Stop-motion">
Stop-motion

Stop motion is a way of animation which makes it look like still objects are moving. Clay animation is a good example of how stop motion is used.

Stop-motion requires any camera that can make single frames (or photos). It works by shooting a single frame, moving the object a little bit, and capturing a frame again. Cartoons use a similar way; one of the main differences is that stop motion uses real objects instead of drawn.

Tim Burton, Will Vinton and the Aardman studio have used this method in their productions.



</doc>
<doc id="14582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14582" title="D.C. United">
D.C. United

D.C. United is a Major League Soccer league soccer (or football) team that plays in Washington, D.C. in the United States. Their nickname is "the Black-and-Red".



</doc>
<doc id="14588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14588" title="Wendy Carlos">
Wendy Carlos

Wendy Carlos (Born Walter Carlos) is an American composer and musician. She was born November 14, 1939 in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. She is known as one of the first people to use electric instruments to make music. In 1968, she released her music album "Switched on Bach". This album used many new electric instruments including the Moog Synthesizer. She also did the music for movies like A Clockwork Orange, The Shining, and Tron. In 1972, Carlos had a medical operation to change her body from male to female.


</doc>
<doc id="14599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14599" title="Boolean algebra">
Boolean algebra

Boolean algebra is algebra for binary (0 meaning false, or 1 meaning true). It uses normal maths symbols, but it does not work in the same way. It is named after its creator George Boole.

The NOT operator is written with a bar over numbers or letters like this:

It means the output is not the input.

The AND operator is written as formula_4 like this:

The output is true only if one and the other input is true.

The OR operator is written as formula_9 like this:

One or the other input can be true for the output to be true.

One or the other input can be true to make the output true, but NOT both.

The XOR operator is written as formula_14 like this:

Different gates can be put together in different orders:

It is not the same as a NOT then an AND like this: formula_20

which is called "XOR identity table"
, if
formula_23.
or if formula_24=TRUE, TRUE.,

Augustus De Morgan found out that it is possible to change a formula_9 sign to a formula_4 sign and make or break a bar. See the 2 examples below:

"Make/break the bar and change the sign."



</doc>
<doc id="14604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14604" title="Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone">
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone is the first book in the Harry Potter series. J.K. Rowling, a woman from England, is the writer. It was published in 1997 and a movie version was shown in theaters in 2001. In the United States the book and movie are called "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone". 

Because this is the first book about Harry Potter, the author begins by setting the scene and introducing the reader to some of the characters who will be important through the books. 

In the start, Rowling describes how in an ordinary suburb, somewhere in an English town, people who are leading their ordinary lives are suddenly surprised to see witches and wizards in odd clothing riding on public buses and appearing at places where people would not expect to suddenly meet a wizard. It is clear that something unusual has happened in the world of witches and wizards, and those people, who are normally quite secret, are out and about, enjoying themselves. 

In this way, Rowling introduces the two worlds of her story, the world of ordinary people, called "Muggles", and the secret world of the magic folk who usually keep to themselves. Rowling then introduces the main character, Harry Potter, a little baby boy who is left on the doorstep of his aunt and uncle by an old wizard with a long white beard. 

When the reader next meets Harry, he has grown to be a boy of eleven, living unhappily with his spiteful aunt, cruel uncle and bullying cousin Dudley. Suddenly he is rescued from his misery by a huge half-giant man with a great black bushy beard and a flying motorcycle. Harry Potter is a wizard without knowing it, and the giant man, Rubeus Hagrid, has come to help him buy his books and get ready to go to school. The school sounds most exciting. It is "Hogwart's Academy of Witchcraft and Wizardry". 

On the long train journey north, Harry Potter meets the two people who are to become his best friends, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger. Ron and Hermione have very different characters. Hermione, who comes from "Muggle" parents, is very intelligent and talented. She is such a know-it-all and so bossy that the boys do not like her at first. Ron, on the other hand, comes from an old family of wizards. He is number six in a family of seven children. He wears hand-me-down clothes and even his pet rat used to belong to his brother Percy. Ron knows all about Harry Potter. 

The reason that Ron, and all the other people in the wizarding world, know all about Harry Potter is that Harry is famous, without even knowing it himself. The reason why he was left on the doorstep of his aunt and uncle is that both his parents are dead. They were murdered by an evil wizard who calls himself "Lord Voldemort". He is so evil that people are even afraid to say his name. Harry is famous because he survived the magical attack of the "He who must not be named", and since that day, Voldemort has gone into hiding. 

Joanne Rowling then gives the reader a picture of the school that is to be Harry's home through seven books of the series, each one of which deals with a year in his life. The book describes the teachers, the lessons, the customs and the school sport so that it seems to be part of a real world. Even though the students learn magic and use magic, the book also describes Harry's growing up in a new and strange situation, just as any student must learn to fit in when they go to a new school among different people. 

Harry soon discovers that while some magicians, such as the School Principal, Professor Albus Dumbledore, and Deputy Professor Minerva McGonagal can be kind and encouraging, others, like the sinister Professor Snape with his greasy black hair and nasty comments, are very hard to trust. One of the subjects that Harry really needs to learn is "Defense against the Dark Arts" but unfortunately, the teacher, Professor Quirrell, is such a bumbling and nervous man that he does not seem to be able to teach Harry very much at all. 

As the year goes by, Harry discovers that Hogwarts has, hidden away for safety, a very precious treasure. If it were to fall into the hands of Lord Voldemort, it would be very dangerous indeed. Harry also discovers that in solving problems and overcoming difficulties, having friends with very different talents can be extremely useful.


The movie, made by Warner Brothers, which was known as "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" in the US, was based closely on the book.


</doc>
<doc id="14606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14606" title="Justin Timberlake">
Justin Timberlake

Justin Randall Timberlake (born January 31, 1981 in Memphis, Tennessee, United States) is an American pop musician and actor. Timberlake first became famous when he appeared in the television series "Mickey Mouse Club" and later when he was part of the Grammy Award-winning boy band *NSYNC. He started his own career as a solo musician in 2002 and has recorded two albums, "Justified" and "FutureSex/LoveSounds".

Timberlake was born in Memphis, Tennessee, the son of Lynn Harless (née Bomar) and Randall Timberlake. Timberlake's ancestors were British and he grew up in the Baptist religion. His parents divorced in 1985 and since then, both have remarried. He grew up in Millington, Tennessee, a small town north of Memphis.

In 1993, Timberlake joined the "The Mickey Mouse Club". His castmates included future girlfriend Britney Spears, future tourmate Christina Aguilera, and future bandmate JC Chasez. The show ended in 1994, but late in 1995 Timberlake recruited Chasez to be in an all-male singing group organized by boy band manager Lou Pearlman that eventually became 'N Sync.

Timberlake and JC Chasez were the two lead singers of the popular 1990s boy band 'N Sync. The group formed in 1995, started its career 1996 in Europe, and hit it big in the United States in 1998 with the US release of its debut album "*NSYNC", which sold 11 million copies. The album included a number of hit singles such as "Tearin' Up My Heart." For the next two years, encouraged by similar developments with the Backstreet Boys, 'N Sync engaged in a lengthy legal battle with manager Lou Pearlman. Eventually the band signed with Jive Records. 'N Sync released a long-awaited album, "No Strings Attached", in March 2000, which became the fastest-selling album of all time with 2.4 million copies sold in its first week and produced a #1 single, "It's Gonna Be Me". The release was followed by the band's third album, "Celebrity", which held the title of the second-fastest selling album of all time. In 2002, after the completion of a "Celebrity Tour" and the release of "Girlfriend," the third single from "Celebrity", the group decided to take time off, at which point Timberlake began work on his first solo album and the group went into a hiatus. In its lifetime, 'N Sync was internationally famous and performed at the Academy Awards, the Olympics, and the Super Bowl, as well as selling more than 50 million copies worldwide, becoming the third-best selling boy band in history.

During late 1999, Timberlake made his acting debut in the Disney Channel movie "Model Behavior", in which he played Jason Sharpe, a model who falls in love with a waitress after mistaking her for another model. It was released on March 12, 2000.

As a member of 'N Sync, Timberlake developed into a major celebrity in his own right in addition to achieving respect as a musician, since he was the writer or co-writer of all three singles from "Celebrity". The rise of his own stardom and the general decline in the popularity of boy bands led to a continuation of 'N Sync's hiatus, although the group has never officially disbanded. Band member Lance Bass has stated that he believes the group is finished, and is openly critical of Timberlake's actions in his memoir "Out of Sync". On the other hand, Chris Kirkpatrick remarked in August 2008 that the five remain friends, and he believed a reunion was possible: he repeated that opinion in October 2009. In September 2008, Bass also made conciliatory comments.

In August 2002, after months of recording "Justified", his debut solo album, Timberlake performed at the 2002 MTV Video Music Awards, where he premiered his first single, "Like I Love You," a sparse dance track produced by The Neptunes. The song reached number eleven on the "Billboard" Hot 100. Following the single, Timberlake released "Justified" on November 5, 2002. The album sold fewer copies than previous 'N Sync efforts. It debuted at number two on the "Billboard" 200 album chart, selling 439,000 copies in its first week of release. It eventually went on to sell more than three million copies in the U.S. and more than seven million copies worldwide. The album also received critical acclaim, thanks to its heavy R&B influence provided by hip-hop producers The Neptunes and Timbaland. It spun off hits throughout late 2002 and 2003, including the top ten singles "Cry Me a River" and "Rock Your Body." Timberlake supported the album by co-headlining the Justified/Stripped Tour with Christina Aguilera in the summer of 2003. At the end of the year, Timberlake recorded a song entitled "I'm Lovin' It." It was used by McDonald's as the theme to its "I'm Lovin' It" campaign. The deal with McDonald's earned Timberlake an estimated $6 million. A tour entitled Justified and Lovin' It Live was included with the deal as well. Timberlake was featured on Nelly's song, "Work It", which was remixed and included on Nelly's 2003 remix album.

In February 2004, during the halftime show of the Super Bowl XXXVIII broadcast on the CBS television network, Timberlake performed with Janet Jackson before a television audience of more than 140 million viewers. At the end of the performance, as the song drew to a close, Timberlake tore off a part of Jackson's black leather costume in a "costume reveal" meant to accompany a portion of the song lyrics. According to CBS, "both Jackson and Timberlake had confirmed they planned it 'independently and clandestinely' without informing anyone." Part of the costume detached, and Jackson's breast was briefly exposed. Timberlake apologized for the incident, stating he was "sorry that anyone was offended by the wardrobe malfunction during the halftime performance of the Super Bowl..." The phrase "wardrobe malfunction" has since been used by the media to refer to the incident and has entered pop culture. As a result of the controversy, Timberlake and Jackson were threatened with exclusion from the 2004 Grammy Awards unless they agreed to apologize on screen at the event. Timberlake attended and issued a scripted apology when accepting the first of two Grammy Awards he received that night (Best Pop Vocal Album for "Justified" and Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for "Cry Me a River"). He had also been nominated for Album of the Year for "Justified", Record of the Year for "Cry Me a River", and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration for "Where Is the Love?" with The Black Eyed Peas.

After the Super Bowl controversy, Timberlake put his recording career on hold to act in several films, having starred in a few feature films earlier in his music career. The first role he took during this time was as a journalist in the thriller "Edison Force", which was filmed in 2004 and received a direct-to-video release on July 18, 2006. He also appeared in the films "Alpha Dog", "Black Snake Moan", Richard Kelly's "Southland Tales", and voiced Prince Artie Pendragon in the animated film "Shrek the Third", released on May 18, 2007. He also appeared as a young Elton John, in the video for John's song "This Train Don't Stop There Anymore". Timberlake was considered to play the role of Roger Davis in the film version of the rock musical "Rent", but director Chris Columbus had insisted that only the original Broadway members could convey the true meaning of "Rent".

He continued to record with other artists. After "Where Is the Love?", he again collaborated with the Black Eyed Peas on the 2005 track "My Style" from their album "Monkey Business". When recording the 2005 single "Signs" with Snoop Dogg, Timberlake discovered a throat condition. Nodules were subsequently removed from his throat in an operation that took place on May 5, 2005. He was advised not to sing or speak loudly for at least a few months. In the summer of 2005, Timberlake started his own record company, JayTee Records.

Timberlake made a cameo in the video for Nelly Furtado and Timbaland's single "Promiscuous", released on May 3, 2006.

Timberlake released his second solo album, "FutureSex/LoveSounds", on September 12, 2006. The album, which Timberlake created in 2005, debuted at number one on the "Billboard" 200 album chart, selling 684,000 copies its first week. It is the biggest album for pre-orders on iTunes, and beat Coldplay's record for the biggest one-week sales of a digital album. The album was produced by Timbaland and Danja (who produced a bulk of the album), will.i.am, Rick Rubin and Timberlake himself, and features guest vocals by Snoop Dogg, Three 6 Mafia, T.I. and will.i.am. A studio representative described it as being "all about sexiness" and aiming for "an adult feel".

The album's lead single, "SexyBack", was performed by Timberlake at the opening of the 2006 MTV Video Music Awards and reached number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100, where it remained for seven consecutive weeks. "My Love", the album's second single, also produced by Timbaland and featuring rapper T.I., reached number one on the Hot 100, as did third single "What Goes Around.../...Comes Around Interlude". The song is reported to have been inspired by the break-up of his childhood friend and business partner, Trace Ayala, with actress Elisha Cuthbert. In October 2006, Timberlake said that he would focus on his music career rather than his film roles, specifying that leaving the music industry would be a "dumb thing to do at this point". He was the special guest performer at the 2006 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show for being where he sang SexyBack. In January 2007, Timberlake embarked on the FutureSex/LoveShow tour. "Summer Love/Set the Mood Prelude" was the fourth U.S. single off the album, and the next single in the UK was "LoveStoned/I Think She Knows Interlude". The song "Give It to Me", a Timbaland single on which Timberlake guests with Nelly Furtado, reached the Hot 100 number-one spot.

In February 2008, Timberlake was awarded two Grammy Awards. At the 50th Grammy Awards Ceremony, Timberlake won the "Male Pop Performance" Award for "What Goes Around...Comes Around", and the "Dance Recording" Award for "LoveStoned/I Think She Knows".

In April 2007, Timberlake was seen entering a London studio with Madonna, thus confirming rumors that he was collaborating with her. A song "4 Minutes", was first played by Timbaland at Philadelphia's Jingle Ball on December 17, 2007. When released on March 17, 2008, "4 Minutes" was revealed to be a duet between Timberlake and Madonna, with backing vocals by Timbaland. It was lead single from Madonna's eleventh studio album "Hard Candy", which featured four other song-writing collaborations with Timberlake. The single was an international hit, and topped the charts in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, and reached the Top 5 in Austria, France, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand and the United States. Timberlake also appears in the music video, which was directed by Jonas & François. On March 30, 2008, Timberlake performed the song at Madonna's Hard Candy Promo Show at Roseland Ballroom in New York City. On November 6, 2008, Timberlake performed the song with Madonna on the Los Angeles stop of her Sticky & Sweet Tour.

Around June 2007 Timberlake co-wrote, produced and provided vocals for the songs "Nite Runner" and "Falling Down" for Duran Duran's album "Red Carpet Massacre", released on November 13, 2007. "Falling Down" had been released as a single in the UK on the previous day.

Also in 2007, Timberlake made an appearance on 50 Cent's third album, "Curtis". Timberlake, along with Timbaland, is featured on a track called "Ayo Technology", which was the album's fourth single. Also, another possible collaboration was to occur with Lil Wayne for his album "Tha Carter III" with Nelly Furtado and Timbaland.

With the wrapping up of the FutureSex/LoveSounds tour of Australasia and the Middle East in November 2007, Timberlake resumed his film career. Projects underway early in 2008 were starring roles in Mike Myers' comedy "The Love Guru" (released June 20, 2008) and Mike Meredith's drama "The Open Road" (released August 28, 2009). In March 2008 it was announced that he was be an executive producer in an American adaptation of the hit Peruvian comedy "My Problem with Women" for NBC.

On November 20, 2008, "TV Guide" reported that Timberlake’s next single, "Follow My Lead", which also featured vocals by Timberlake’s protégée, former YouTube star Esmee Denters, would be available for exclusive download through MySpace. All proceeds would go to Shriners Hospitals for Children, a charity dedicated to improving pediatric care for sick children.

In 2008 a collaboration between Timberlake and T.I., "Dead and Gone" featured on T.I.'s sixth studio album, "Paper Trail", and was released as its fourth single late in 2009. In November 2008, it was confirmed that Timberlake would make a guest appearance and produce some tracks on R&B/pop singer Ciara's upcoming album "Fantasy Ride" due out May 5, 2009. Timberlake featured on Ciara's second single "Love Sex Magic", the video being shot on February 20, 2009. The single became a worldwide hit, reaching the top ten in numerous countries and peaking at number one in several countries including Taiwan, India, and Turkey. The single is now nominated for "Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals" at the 52nd Grammy Awards.

Timberlake and his production team The Y's, along with Mike Elizondo, produced and co-wrote the song "Don't Let Me Down" for Leona Lewis's second studio album, "Echo", released (in the US) on November 17, 2009.

Timberlake also co-wrote and performed on "Carry Out," the third single from Timbaland's album "Shock Value II", released on December 1, 2009.

He had a relationship with Britney Spears when they met at the "Mickey Mouse Club". This relationship gained high public attention. It ended suddenly in 2002 when Timberlake claimed that Spears cheated on him with choreographer Wade Robson.

Later in 2002, he dated actress-dancer Jenna Dewan and actress-singer Alyssa Milano. In April 2003, he started dating actress Cameron Diaz after they met at the Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards. There were many rumors afterwards that the two broke up, but he stated on December 16, 2006 on "Saturday Night Live" that they had split up.

In 2007, it was revealed that he had a romantic relationship with actress Jessica Biel.

Timberlake also works in the film industry. He is the voice of King Arthur in the recently released movie "Shrek the Third". He is also in the movies "Alpha Dog" and "Black Snake Moan". In 2008, he acted in movie "The Love Guru".






</doc>
<doc id="14612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14612" title="Aramaic language">
Aramaic language

Aramaic is a language that is 3000 years old, or even more. It is part of a group of languages called the Semitic languages. This group has Aramaic, Hebrew, Arabic and many other languages in it. Some old kingdoms used Aramaic language for business. Some religions use Aramaic for their meetings. Aramaic is the language of big parts of the two Bible books of Daniel and Ezra. It is the language of the Jewish Talmud. Most people think that Aramaic was the language of Jesus. Aramaic is spoken today by small groups of people.

In the 12th century BC, Aramaeans, the first speakers of Aramaic started to make their homes in today's countries of Syria, Iraq and east Turkey. Their language became more important. It became the most important language in the Middle East. Jewish speakers of Aramaic took the language with them to north Africa and Europe. Christian speakers of Aramaic took the language with them to Persia, India and even China. In the 7th century AD, Aramaic stopped being the most important language in the Middle East. The Arabic language became the new important language. But, Aramaic is still the language of writing and religion for Jews, Mandaeans and some Christians. Small groups of people still speak Aramaic in different parts of the Middle East. The wars of the last two centuries made many Aramaic speakers leave their homes and go to live in many, different places around the world.

Aramaic is not one language without any changes. Because many different people over many centuries spoke and wrote it, there are many different types of Aramaic languages. These different types are called dialects, but some of them are so different that they are like different languages. The different dialects make two groups: an "Eastern" group and a "Western" group. The division between them is around the line of the river Euphrates. We also divide up the dialects by their place in time. "Old" Aramaic is the name of the oldest dialects. Only special teachers learn Old Aramaic. "Middle" Aramaic is the group of dialects that people do not speak every day, but they use them for special things like writing and religion. "Modern" Aramaic is the group of dialects that people use every day. They are living languages.


</doc>
<doc id="14617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14617" title="Libya">
Libya

Libya is a country in north Africa. Since 2011 its full name is "The Libyan Republic". The first mention of Libya in recorded history is by the ancient Egyptians. The area is named after a woman written about in Ancient Greek stories, "Libya", the daughter of Epaphus and Memphis. In the past, before it became a country, Libya has been part of Carthage, Rome, Arabia and Spain. It was ruled by the Ottoman Empire from 1551 until 1911.

Libya's borders touch the countries of Egypt, Sudan, Chad, Algeria, Niger, and Tunisia. To its north is the Mediterranean Sea. The capital of Libya is Tripoli, which is a port on the sea. Tripoli has about one million people. Libya covers an area of about . The highest point in Libya is Bikku Bitti 2,267 m above sea level and the lowest point is Sabkhat Ghuzayyil -47 m at below sea level. Most of the country is flat, with large plains. Because it is so dry, only 1.03% of the land is suitable for farming.

The area around Tripoli is called "Tripolitania", and it was the most developed during the Ottoman occupation.

Cyrenaica is an area of the north east coast. It is divided from Tripolitania by the Gulf of Sert. It was named by the Greeks who built the city of Cirene in 630 BC. The area was where many of the battles of World War II were fought. It includes the cities of Tobruk and Benghazi. Like Tripolitania, Cyrenaica was also governed by Britain after the war.

The Fezzan is an area of desert in south west Libya which the Italians made a part of Tripoli in 1912. After the war this area was governed by France, who wanted to annex to their Empire.

The population of Libya in 2011 was said to be about 6,597,960. This is not a large number for a country that has such a large area, so the population density of Libya is low. This is because much of Libya is in the Sahara Desert. Most people in Libya live in cities on the coast. People from Libya are called Libyans.

Libyans are mostly Arabs, though many are Berbers, a group which includes the nomadic Tuareg of North Africa. About 95% of Libyans are of Arab-Berber origin. Most Libyans are Sunni Muslims.


Oil was discovered in Libya in 1958 and is about 95% of the country's export income. Oil is about 25% of Libya's GDP. Other exports include natural gas, salt, limestone and gypsum. Because so much of the country is desert, Libya has to import about 75% of its food. It does grow wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus, peanuts, soybeans and many vegetables. In 1984, a pipeline was started to bring underground water from the Sahara to coastal areas for irrigation. The pipeline which will take 25 years to complete has been estimated to cost about $25 billion. It is called the Great Man-made River, and is the largest water development scheme in the world.

The money of Libya is called the Libyan dinar. It was made to take the place of the old money, the Libyan pound, in 1971. There are 1000 dirhams in a dinar. Dinar is the name of the money in many Islamic countries. The name comes from an old Roman coin, the denarius.

Libya is made up of three regions, Tripolitania, Cyrenaica, and the Fezzan. Tripolitania is the area on the north west coast, once called the Kingdom of Tripoli. It was ruled by Turks from the Ottoman Empire. The USA went to war with the Kingdom of Tripoli in 1805 over the problems of piracy in the Mediterranean. The USA had refused to pay increased "protection" money to the Turkish rulers. 

Tripolitania and Cyrenaica were captured by the Italians during the Italian-Turkish War of 1911-1912. The reason for the war was to set up a colony for Italy. They said that this area was once part of the Roman Empire and belonged to Italy. The Italians were the first country to use aeroplanes to drop bombs when they attacked Tripoli in 1911. 

Many thousands of Italian settlers moved to Libya to set up businesses and farms, which were going to supply food and produce for Italy and its Empire Libyans had some of their land in Cyrenaica taken from them by force and about 70,000 people died during the battles, starved, or were decimated by the terrible epidemy (called "Spanish flu") of 1918. Many thousands escaped to Egypt, but soon moved back when the Italian governor Italo Balbo started a friendly attitude toward Arabs. 

Italian Libya enjoyed in the late 1930s a huge development, with the creation of new railways, ports, hospitals, airports, roads . In those years the agricultural economy boomed, thanks to the creation of many dozens of new villages for Italian & Arab farmers. There was even an international race-car competition outside Tripoli ("Grand Prix of Tripoli" ). The war in 1940 destroyed most of what has been done by the Italians. 

The British captured Tripolitania in 1942 during World War II and ruled it until 1951. 

After World War II, the regions of Libya were ruled by military governors from both Britain and France. The United Nations made Libya an independent country, the United Kingdom of Libya, in 1951. This was to be a constitutional monarchy, ruled by King Idris I and his successors. Idris (Muhammad Idris bin Muhammad al-Mahdi as-Senussi) (13 March 1890—25 May 1983) had been the Emir of Cyrenaica, but went into exile in Egypt in 1922. At the end of the war, he returned as emir, with support of Britain. He was also asked to be Emir of Tripolitania. He was able to unite the three regions and became the king of the United Kingdom of Libya on 24 December 1951. The problems facing Libya were huge. The country was poor, with little in the way of goods to export. Only 250,000 people could read. There were only 16 Libyan college graduates, no Libyan doctors, engineers, pharmacists, or surveyors. The United Nations estimated that 10% of the people were blind from eye diseases, especially trachoma. Idris was a religious leader did not take much interest in the affairs of government. His government was seen to be corrupt, and did not take notice of an increasing rise in Arab nationalism which had brought Nasser to power in Egypt in 1952. Once oil was discovered, Libya became one of the richest countries in the world. Many Libyans felt that Cyrenaica was getting more of the oil money than the rest of the country. A lot of the money from oil was also going to overseas companies.

In the early morning of 1 September 1969, a group of military officers took over the government in a coup d'état. Colonel Muammar Abu Minyar al-Qadhafi was named as chief of staff of the military. In January 1970 he became Prime Minister. He began a political system named "The Third Universal Theory". This is a mix of socialism and Islam, based on tribal government. It was to be put in place by the Libyan people themselves in a unique form of "direct democracy." Al-Qadhafi called this "jamahiriya".

Some of his first actions were to take back control of the oil and send the remaining Italian settlers back to Italy. He also closed down the American USAF base.

In 1977 Libya became "Al-Jamahiriya al-`Arabiyah al-Libiyah ash-Sha`biyah al-Ishtirakiyah al-Uzma" . In English, the name means the "Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya".

Qadhafi used money from the sale of Libyan oil during the 1970s and 1980s to promote his ideas outside Libya. He supported subversives and terrorists in other countries to bring about the end of Marxism and capitalism. Beginning in 1973, he also started military operations in northern Chad to gain access to minerals. He was forced to retreat in 1987. The Libyan government supported attempts to assassinate the leaders of Egypt, Sudan, Chad, Tunisia, and Zaire. He supplied weapons and money to the Irish Republican Army during its fight with the British government in Northern Ireland. In the 1990's the Libyan government said that it had been a mistake to get involved, and would not supply the IRA any further. It was said that Libya had also bombed aircraft, including Pan AM Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988 and French UTA Flight 772 in 1989.

The United Nations put sanctions in place against Libya in 1992. These sanctions stopped other countries selling weapons, investing money, or even allowing their people to visit Libya. This isolated Qadhafi politically from the rest of the world and caused economic problems for Libya. These sanctions were removed in 2003 when Libya agreed to meet several conditions. They agreed to pay money to the families of people killed in the plane bombings. They handed over two men believed to have carried out the Lockerbie bombing for trial. They agreed not to support terrorism.

In December 2003, Qadhafi said that he would end Libya's plans to develop weapons of mass destruction. He also set about having normal relations with other counties. Western European leaders and many working-level and commercial delegations were able to visit the country. He made his first trip to Western Europe in 15 years when he traveled to Brussels in April 2004.

Every Libyan who is older than 18 can vote. This means that voting (also known as "suffrage") in Libya is "universal".

In 2011, a civil war broke out in Libya when some Libyans started a rebellion against Colonel Mu'ammar al-Qadhafi and his government. NATO gave the rebels help during the civil war. The war lasted for eight months, and it ended when the rebels killed Colonel Qadhafi and took over Libya.


<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="14618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14618" title="Population density">
Population density

The population density of a country or city is a way of showing how crowded that place is. It is calculated by dividing the population by the area. For example, France has a population of 60,561,200, and an area of 551,695 square kilometres, so its population density is about 109.8 persons per square kilometre.

A number of factors can affect population density. For example, the climate. Greenland has a very low population density because it is very cold there, so not many people want to live there.

Many cities were built near rivers, because the first settlers wanted somewhere close to water to start a society, so you could say areas around rivers usually have a high population density.

Some places, such as cities, have very high population densities, so they are quite crowded. The population density of New York City is 10,292 persons per square kilometre. Other places, such as large countries, can have very low population densities. The population density of Canada is only 3.5 persons per square kilometre because it is such a big country.

The country with the highest population density in the world is Monaco, with 16,620 persons per square kilometre. The country with the lowest is Greenland, which has only 0.03 persons per square kilometre.


</doc>
<doc id="14619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14619" title="Joey">
Joey

Joey has the following meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="14621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14621" title="Saturday Night Fever">
Saturday Night Fever

Saturday Night Fever is a 1977 movie. It stars John Travolta as a young man named Tony Manero, who tries to escape his problem-filled life in Brooklyn by dancing at a dance club in New York City. The soundtrack (an album that has songs that were heard in the movie) of the movie was provided by The Bee Gees and many other artists. Both the album and movie were very popular. There are two versions of the movie: the original R-rated version and the PG-rated version which came out a year later so the movie could be popular with younger people. A sequel called "Staying Alive" was released in 1983.


</doc>
<doc id="14622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14622" title="Greyhound">
Greyhound

A Greyhound is a dog breed that is skinny, has long legs, and runs faster than any other breed of dog. It is one of the oldest breeds of dogs. For centuries, people have raced them in some parts of the world. Greyhound racing is a bit like horse racing in many ways. In recent years, many Greyhounds have been mistreated or killed especially after they get too old to race, but many rescue groups try to stop that and to help them be adopted by people to keep as pets.


</doc>
<doc id="14623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14623" title="Grand unification theory">
Grand unification theory

Grand unification theory was thought of by a Pakistani scientist, Dr. Abdus Salam. He combined two forces of the universe, the weak nuclear force and the electromagnetic force. These are two of the fundamental forces of nature, which are responsible for all of the pushes and pulls in the universe. He received the Nobel Prize in 1979 because of this theory.


</doc>
<doc id="14624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14624" title="Factory">
Factory

A factory is a building where workers use machines to make objects for sale. It usually means a building companies use to make different things. Usually, things are mass produced in factories. This means that many of the same thing are made in a short amount of time.


</doc>
<doc id="14627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14627" title="United States Declaration of Independence">
United States Declaration of Independence

The United States Declaration of Independence is an important document in the history of the United States of America. It was written in 1776 and says that the American colonies were no longer under the rule of Great Britain, but were a new country.

Before 1776, the United States of America was not a country. The individual states were colonies of Great Britain. They were called British Colonies. This means that the King and Parliament of Great Britain ruled the United States. The Declaration of Independence was signed by 56 men.

During this time, many American people were angry at Great Britain. Many say Americans did not like paying taxes to Great Britain when they did not have any representation in Parliament. The American people wanted to be treated like British citizens. When they were not treated like citizens, they felt that their loyalty towards Great Britain was no longer valid.

Responding to actions taken by Great Britain, including the Intolerable Acts, the different colonies formed a Continental Congress to make decisions for all of the colonies. They met in the American city of Philadelphia. During a meeting of the Second Continental Congress, on June 11, 1776, they named John Adams of Massachusetts, Benjamin Franklin of Pennsylvania, Thomas Jefferson of Virginia, Robert R. Livingston of New York, and Roger Sherman of Connecticut to form a committee to draft a document that would become the Declaration of Independence.

Jefferson did most of the writing. Jefferson writes of the rights of people and the role of government. Jefferson then lists specific bad things that the government of Great Britain did, like putting people in jail with no reason, making taxes that were too high, and not giving respect to people who lived in the colonies.

The Declaration then says that because of all the things that Britain had done to the colonies, the colonies would now be free, independent states.

After arguing about it and making some changes, the Continental Congress approved Jefferson's document. They used his document to declare their independence. Independence was actually declared on July 2, 1776. The full Continental Congress ratified (approved) the Declaration on July 4th, at the Pennsylvania State House. This version was only signed by the President of the Congress John Hancock and the Secretary Charles Thomson. On August 2, 1776 a parchment paper copy of the Declaration was signed by 56 persons. Many of these signers were not present when the original Declaration was adopted on July 4. One signer, Matthew Thornton, from New Hampshire, who agreed to the Declaration and having joined the Continental Congress, signed on November 4, 1776. 

The Declaration of Independence had many different effects. One of them said that they were now not part of Great Britain. It also said that all men were equal. 
They made a new democratic government to govern America. When the king of Great Britain and Parliament heard about this they were angry. Great Britain and the people in America had already been fighting in a war. This war is called the American Revolution. America won the war, and in 1783 Great Britain had to recognize the independence of the new country, the United States, at the Treaty of Paris.

The people of America know that the Declaration of Independence is very important. Every year on the day of July 4, they have the holiday that is named 'Independence Day'. They celebrate this holiday to remember the day that the Declaration was approved, and the day that the United States of America became a its own country.Now we have parades, fireworks, and songs.

Americans also know the Declaration of Independence is very important because it gives the simple ideas that the people who started the United States believed in. It says that every person in this U.S has rights (to life, to liberty, and happiness) and that the government has to listen to our people. These things are what makes America a free independent country.

The Declaration of Independence is very old, but it is still here. The paper that Thomas Jefferson wrote on is now in the National Archives Museum in the American





</doc>
<doc id="14629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14629" title="Jordan">
Jordan

Jordan is a country in the Middle East. Its official name is "The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan".

Jordan has borders with the countries of Saudi Arabia, Israel, Syria and Iraq. It also has a very short coast on the Red Sea, and a longer coast along the Dead Sea.

Most of Jordan is desert and the country is very dry. The northwest of Jordan is its highest part, and its lowest part is the Dead Sea. This is the lowest place on the Earth that is open to the sky.

The capital of Jordan is Amman.

People from Jordan are called Jordanians. Most of them speak Arabic as their first language. The population of Jordan is about 5.7 million people.

Jordan is a democracy, and the Jordanians vote for their political leaders. However, Jordan is also a monarchy and has a king. The King is the head of state, but he does not have all the power in the country. King Abdullah II has been the King of Jordan since February 1999. Most Jordanians are Muslim. There is a small number of Christians.

Unlike some of the countries around it, Jordan has little petroleum and natural gas. Some of its economy comes from mining instead.

The currency of Jordan is called the Jordanian dinar.


</doc>
<doc id="14630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14630" title="Israeli">
Israeli

An Israeli is a person who is a citizen of the country Israel. Most Israelis speak Hebrew as their first language.


</doc>
<doc id="14653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14653" title="Prejudice">
Prejudice

When a person is prejudiced, it means that they decide they like or dislike something without really thinking carefully about it. The word comes from the Latin "pre" (before) and "judge".

The word "prejudice" is often used when people dislike another group of people that are different from them. They may decide they do not like them because of their skin colour (this is "racial prejudice"), religion (religious prejudice) or nationality. These are all serious prejudices which can lead to hatred or even war.

Judges in a court of law should not be prejudiced when deciding whether someone is guilty. They should have an "open mind" so that they can make a fair decision. For example, if that person is the judge's friend then the judge would be prejudiced because he (or she) would not want his (or her) friend to get into trouble.

In many other situations it is important not to be prejudiced, e.g. for an adjudicator in a competition or a juror in a jury.



</doc>
<doc id="14654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14654" title="Category:Pets">
Category:Pets

This articles are about animals that are commonly kept as pets.


</doc>
<doc id="14655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14655" title="Inflation">
Inflation

Inflation means that the general level of prices is going up, the opposite of deflation. More money will need to be paid for goods (like a loaf of bread) and services (like getting a haircut at the hairdresser's). Economists measure inflation regularly to know an economy's state. Inflation changes the ratio of money towards goods or services; more money is needed to get the same amount of a good or service, or the same amount of money will get a lower amount of a good or service. Economists defined certain customer baskets to be able to measure inflation. 

When the total money in an economy (the money supply) increases too rapidly, the quality of the money (the currency value) often decreases. Economists generally think that this money supply increase (monetary inflation) causes the goods/services price increase (price inflation) over a longer period. They disagree on causes over a shorter period.
The Demand-Pull inflation theory can be said simply as "too much money chasing too few goods." In other words, if the will of buying goods is growing faster than amount of goods that have been made, then prices will go up. This most likely happens in economies that are growing fast.
Whenever a product is bought or sold beyond its real price for its worth, then Inflation of money occurs.

The Cost-Push inflation theory says that when the cost of making goods (which are paid by the company) go up, they have to make prices higher to still make profit out of selling that very product. The higher costs of making goods can include things like workers' wages, taxes to be paid to the government or bigger costs of getting raw materials from other countries.

However, Austrian Economists think this is wrong, because if people have to pay higher prices, this just means they have less to spend on other things.

Almost everyone thinks inflation is bad. Inflation affects different people in different ways. It also depends on whether inflation is expected or not. If the inflation rate is equal to what most people are expecting (anticipated inflation), then we can adjust and the cost is not as high. For example, banks can change their interest rates and workers can negotiate contracts that include automatic wage hikes as the price level goes up. 

Problems arise when there is unanticipated inflation:
nominal interest rate rise because inflation is anticipated


</doc>
<doc id="14657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14657" title="Obsessive-compulsive disorder">
Obsessive-compulsive disorder

Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( often shortened to OCD) is a mental illness that causes repeated and unwanted thoughts and actions. Anxiety is one of the most common symptoms and can lead the individual to believe that if a task is not completed, something bad may happen. Such a task may be to washing hands five times. This belief leads to more anxiety and tension. OCD can limit one's ability to participate in relationships, the workplace, and in society in general.

The causes of OCD are not fully known. There seem to be certain predispositions, as well as problems with certain neurotransmitters, most notably serotonin. Certain mutations of genes may also influence OCD. Treating OCD is difficult because of this. Drugs that influence these neurotransmitters sometimes help, as well as drugs mainly used to treat depression. 

Behavior therapy can teach those affected how to control the disorder. Often people are confronted with their obsessions, and react less and less to them. Use of medications such as Prozac and Zoloft may also be prescribed by a physician to treat a patient with OCD. Many times, physicians may combine the use of medication and counseling for those afflicted with the disorder and they find that this approach works best.

OCD affects around 1.2% of the world's population, and is involves somehow in the lives of around 15%. In the United States, about one in fifty adults has OCD.


</doc>
<doc id="14678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14678" title="Category:4th century">
Category:4th century

This category is for articles and events specifically related to the 4th century, which began in the year 301 and ended in the year 400.

Note that the year 400 is included in in the 5th century but is actually part of the 4th century.


</doc>
<doc id="14679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14679" title="Category:4th century deaths">
Category:4th century deaths

This category is a list of people who died in the 4th century, organized by the year in which they died.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14680" title="Category:300s deaths">
Category:300s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 300s, starting from the year 300 to the year 309.

Note that the year 300 is actually the last year in the 3rd century; 301 is the first year in the 4th century.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14681" title="Category:303">
Category:303


</doc>
<doc id="14682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14682" title="Category:300s">
Category:300s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 300s which begins in the year 300 and ends in the year 309.

Note that 300 is actually the last year of the 3rd century; 301 is the actual first year of the 4th century.


</doc>
<doc id="14683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14683" title="Category:1810 births">
Category:1810 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1810.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14684" title="Category:1810">
Category:1810


</doc>
<doc id="14687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14687" title="Category:1753 births">
Category:1753 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1753.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14688" title="Category:1753">
Category:1753


</doc>
<doc id="14689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14689" title="Category:1811 deaths">
Category:1811 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="14690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14690" title="Category:1811">
Category:1811


</doc>
<doc id="14701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14701" title="Industrial Revolution">
Industrial Revolution

The Industrial Revolution is the name historians have given to the period in history when there was a large and rapid change in the way things were made. This meant that instead of things being hand made in small workshops, they were made more cheaply in large quantities by machines in factories . 

Many people began to move from an agricultural based life in the country to the towns where the factories offered more and better paid work. 

The Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain in the middle of the 18th century. It spread to Europe and the Americas, especially the United States, by the early 19th century. As new inventions were being created, factories followed soon thereafter. England wanted to keep its industrialization a secret, so they prohibited anyone who had worked in a factory to leave the country. Meanwhile, Americans offered a significant reward to anyone who could build a cotton-spinning machine in the United States. Samuel Slater, who had been an apprentice in an English cotton factory, disguised himself and came to America. Once here, he reconstructed a cotton-spinning machine from memory. He then proceeded to build a factory of his own. 

New ideas and inventions were also taken up and used in mining, the working of metals, and in the transportation of goods. Around the same time the Agricultural revolution was also using new ideas in farming which left some farm workers without jobs. They added to the move to the industrial towns where they sought out work in factories. 
The most important new invention of the industrial revolution was the steam engine. The steam engine, invented by James Watt around 1776 was used to power the factories and pump out the deeper mines. It was also used in railway engines. The heat from burning coal became the main source of power.

Some historians see the period called the industrial revolution as finishing about 1820, but they agree this was only the start of change in the way we make things, which continues right up to the present time. Many refer to the period after 1820 as the "Second Industrial Revolution".

Historians still disagree on why the Industrial Revolution happened when it did, and why it happened in England first. It built on a new spirit of studying things through science. The 17th century was a period called the Enlightenment by historians during which people asked more questions about the way the world worked. England also was a politically stable country throughout the 1700s with no wars at home (although it had many abroad). England was also lucky that it had many of the raw materials needed to make and power the new machines close by within its borders. It also had an overseas empire that would buy the goods it made and provide it with a cheap source of other raw materials such as cotton and sugar. At the time of the industrial revolution slavery was practiced in many British Empire lands, this supplied a source for some of the money which could be spent on building the new industries. Also, England had much less land that could be farmed compared to other European countries.

Living standards rose and people generally became richer and healthier and had more children who survived to be adults. This led a strong growth in the number of people in England. However, this caused new problems. The environment was damaged. The difference between the poor and the rich grew great. Children and women had to work for a long time for little pay. Often several families crowded into very small apartments. Working at different times, family members would take turns sleeping when they were not working. Families were usually unable to get together. 12, 14, or even 18-hour workdays were common. The Industrial Revolution brought problems of its own.

Some of the things which happened during the industrial revolution were:



</doc>
<doc id="14712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14712" title="Botswana">
Botswana

Botswana is a country in southern Africa. Its full name is The Republic of Botswana. The capital of Botswana is Gaborone.

Botswana is bordered by the countries of Zimbabwe, South Africa and Namibia. It is also possible to travel from Botswana directly into Zambia by crossing the Zambezi river by ferry.

Botswana has no coast on the sea, nor on a lake. This type of country is called "landlocked", and means that all of Botswana's trade must be brought in over land, or by aeroplane.

The two most important geographical features in Botswana are the Okavango delta and the Kalahari desert.

People from Botswana are called Batswana. The population of Botswana is about 1.8 million people. This is a small number for a country of this size, and so the population density of Botswana is very low at only 2.7 persons per km². This is because most of the country is desert and very dry.

The languages spoken by most Batswana are English and the local language called "Setswana" (also called "Tswana").

Botswana is a democracy and the people vote for their political leaders, who vote for their president. The current president of Botswana is Ian Khama.

The economy of Botswana has been growing very fast since it became an independent country in 1966. The people of Botswana have had the world's fastest growth in standard of living since that time.

Botswana's economy comes mostly from the mining of diamonds, as well as metals such as copper and of minerals such as salt. Many people come to Botswana each year to see its wildlife, and so tourism is important to the country.

The currency of Botswana is called the "Pula" (which means rain). It is made up of 100 "thebe" (which means shield).One US $ is about 6.8 Pulas .


</doc>
<doc id="14713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14713" title="Ferry">
Ferry

A ferry is a ship or boat that is used to take people, vehicles or goods across water. Ferries are used across seas, lakes and rivers. Some places in the world can only be reached by ferry, because they have no roads or railways, nor any airports at which to land aeroplanes.

Sometimes the trip in a ferry is free, and sometimes it must be paid for.

The word 'ferry' can also mean 'to take someone or something by ferry'.


</doc>
<doc id="14718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14718" title="Rapa">
Rapa

Rapa or Oparo is an island in French Polynesia. It is sometimes called Rapa Iti to distinguish it from Rapa Nui (Easter Island).

The first European, who visited the island, was the captain George Vancouver. He visited the island in 1791. The island had an estimated population of about 2000 inhabitants. Four tribes inhabited the island. There were many tribal wars on the island. 

The Rapan people were converted to Christianity in 1826, when six embassadors were sent from Tahiti. Soon after that some slaves were brought to Rapa. It caused an epidemy and in 1867 the island's population had declined to about 120. Since late 1800s, the island's population has steadily grown. 

The main village of Rapa is Haurei. Nearly all inhabitants of Rapa are living in Haurei. The Bay of Haurei, which is on the western end of the island, is named after the village. The bay's original name was, however, "Oparo" or "Paro". Smaller villages include 'Area. 

Rapa's nearest inhabited neighbor island is more than five hundred kilometers away. Together with Marotiri and some smaller islets, Rapa forms the Bass Islands. Marotiri is 46 miles away from Rapa. 

To the southeast is the uninhabited islet Motu Tauturu. 

Many mountains are in Rapa. The highest of them is Mt. Perau (650 m). Rapa has a land area of forty km².

Rapa is 1240 kilometers away from Tahiti, the main island of French Polynesia. 

Most inhabitants of Rapa are Polynesians. Polynesians are believed to inhabit the island in about 1000 BC.

Rapa has a population of 521 inhabitants (1996). Most of them are fishermen. The most spoken language of the island is Rapan. Most children and youth can also speak French. 

Rapan is however an endangered language. It is sometimes considered to be a dialect of Tubuaian. 

The most common form of Rapan folk music is himene tarava. The band The Tahitian Choir is from Rapa and its songs are sung in the Rapan language.


</doc>
<doc id="14724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14724" title="Jo Whiley">
Jo Whiley

Johanne "Jo" Whiley (born 4 July, 1965 in Northampton) is an English radio DJ on BBC Radio 1, and television presenter. Starting in February 1997, she had a weekday lunchtime show, called "The Jo Whiley Show" and later "The Lunchtime Social". When Simon Mayo left Radio 1 for Radio Five Live in February 2001, Whiley's show was moved to mid-morning.


</doc>
<doc id="14725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14725" title="Windows Vista">
Windows Vista

Windows Vista is the 7th version of the Microsoft Windows operating system from Microsoft. When Microsoft was making it, it was called Longhorn. On July 28, 2005, Microsoft gave out its real name, Windows Vista.

Microsoft has worked on Vista for more than five years so there are many things that are new to Windows. It has new features like a thumbnail tab view, so it is possible to see what a program is doing. It includes many small programs which are called gadgets such as a calendar which the user can put events on, and the computer will alert the user when those events are near. The calendar is similar to the Bonzi Buddy program. Some versions of Windows Vista have windows with title bars you can see through, in a new addition called "Windows Aero". It has new things to prevent computer virus attacks and other problems that have been common with Windows. Windows Vista is the first operating system for Microsoft to re-word things to make it a lot more simple. 

Microsoft have said that Windows Vista can run older programs but there had been some compatibility problems but a lot of companies had made newer versions of their programs and drivers so that Windows Vista is supported.

Vista was released in November 2006 for system builders and January 30, 2007 for home users. The four main editions of Windows Vista are:


There are 2 special versions called Home Starter Edition, and Enterprise Edition. Home Starter is basically the same as XP Starter, and is for low budget countries. Vista needs at least 512 MB of RAM to run on all computers. Some new parts of Vista need 1 GB of RAM to work.

For stability and performance, more than 1 Gigabyte of main memory (RAM) is always helpful with a large operating system such as this.

Microsoft releases service packs to update software and fix problems.

Windows Vista Service Pack 1 (SP1) was released on February 4, 2008 alongside Windows Server 2008 to OEM partners, after a five-month beta test period. The first use of the service pack caused a number of machines to continually reboot, rendering the machines unusable. This caused Microsoft to temporarily suspend automatic deployment of the service pack until the problem was resolved. The same release date of the two operating systems showed the merging of the workstation and server kernels back into a single code base for the first time since Windows 2000. MSDN subscribers were able to download SP1 on February 15, 2008. SP1 became available to current Windows Vista users on Windows Update and the Download Center on March 18, 2008. Initially, the service pack only supported 5 languages - English, French, Spanish, German and Japanese. Support for the remaining 31 languages was released on April 14, 2008.

Service Pack 2 for Windows Vista was released to manufacturing on April 28, 2009,and released to Microsoft Download Center and Windows Update on May 26, 2009. In addition to a number of security and other fixes, a number of new features have been added. However, it did not include Internet Explorer 8.




</doc>
<doc id="14726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14726" title="The Gambia">
The Gambia

The Gambia is a country in west Africa. Its capital is Banjul. The Gambia is the smallest country on the African Continent, by surface. 

The Geography of Gambia is unusual. It is a long, thin country. Except for its coastline it is completely surrounded by the country of Senegal. The River Gambia flows from Senegal through its centre and into the Atlantic Ocean. 


The population of The Gambia is about 1.7 million. People from The Gambia are called Gambians. A number of people from different cultures and backgrounds live in The Gambia. Some of the largest groups are called "Mandinka", "Fula", and "Wolof". 

English is the official language, but people speak other languages as well.

Most Gambians follow the religion of Islam.

The American writer Alex Haley, who wrote the book "Roots", found that his family came from The Gambia in the 1760s.


</doc>
<doc id="14739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14739" title="Derry">
Derry

Derry or Londonderry is the second largest city in Northern Ireland and is the fourth largest city on the island of Ireland. The population is 100,000. The city was founded in 542. It has old city walls which are still complete. The city is located near the border with the Republic of Ireland.

The city was originally called Doire (pronounced "duhruh") which is an Irish word for a group of oak trees. In English, this word became "Derry". After the Ulster Plantations, the London Companies gave money for the building of the Port and Walls in Derry, and the city name was changed to Londonderry.

In 1984 the city council changed the name of the local government area back to its original title of Derry. But the City's official title is still Londonderry .

People from the Republic of Ireland call the city "Derry", and so do people who want Northern Ireland to be part of the Republic of Ireland. People from Northern Ireland who want Northern Ireland to stay in the UK call the city "Londonderry".


</doc>
<doc id="14740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14740" title="Point">
Point

Point can refer to:

In navigation:

Places:

In sports and games:


</doc>
<doc id="14746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14746" title="Category:1751 births">
Category:1751 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1751.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14747" title="Category:1751">
Category:1751


</doc>
<doc id="14748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14748" title="Category:1836 deaths">
Category:1836 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="14749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14749" title="Category:1986 births">
Category:1986 births


</doc>
<doc id="14750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14750" title="Category:2010">
Category:2010


</doc>
<doc id="14751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14751" title="Category:Computer scientists">
Category:Computer scientists

Computer scientists are people who in computer science.


</doc>
<doc id="14781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14781" title="Federal Reserve">
Federal Reserve

The Federal Reserve (sometimes called "The Fed") is a large central bank that loans money to other smaller banks. The "Federal Reserve Board" is a group of financial leaders who work for the Federal Reserve and decide how much to charge these banks for borrowing money (this charge is called an "interest rate"). The Federal Reserve interest rate is decided by the Federal Reserve Board after studying the condition of the US Economy. 

When the economy is growing too fast, the Federal Reserve makes borrowing more expensive by increasing the interest rate, which means people and companies spend less which discourages inflation. When economic growth slows, the interest rate is decreased so that borrowing will increase and there will be growth.


</doc>
<doc id="14787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14787" title="Trent Reznor">
Trent Reznor

Trent Reznor (born Michael Trent Reznor) (May 17, 1965) is an American singer and musician. He is the lead singer and only regular member of the band Nine Inch Nails (often called NIN.) He sings and plays most of the music himself. He also writes all of the lyrics.

Reznor started playing music when he learned the piano, which he started when he was five years old. He was so good he could maybe have become a pianist if he had wanted to. He also learned saxophone and tuba.

He joined his first band when he was in college, called Option 30. He moved to Cleveland, Ohio, USA in 1985 and joined a band called The Innocent where he played keyboard. In 1986 he joined another band, The Exotic Birds.

He got a job as a cleaner at a music recording studio called Right Track Studio which is now called Midtown Recording. He sometimes used the studio to record songs which later went on his first album "Pretty Hate Machine". When the studio heard how good he was, he quit his job as a cleaner and made the band Nine Inch Nails. Their albums since then have been "Broken" (1992), "The Downward Spiral" (1994), "The Fragile" (1999), "With Teeth" (2005), "Year Zero" (2007), "Ghosts I-IV" (2008), and "The Slip" (2008).


</doc>
<doc id="14788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14788" title="Oklahoma">
Oklahoma

Oklahoma () is a state that is in the southern part of the Central United States. It had a population of about 3,751,351 people in 2010. The state has a land area of about . Oklahoma is the 28th largest state by population and the 20th largest state by area. The name of the state comes from the Choctaw words "okla" and "humma". It means "Red People". It is also known by its nickname, "The Sooner State." The state was formed from Indian Territory on November 16, 1907. It was the 46th state to become part of the United States. The people who live in the state are known as "Oklahomans" or "Okies". The state's capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.

In the past, Oklahoma was used as a path for cattle drives, a place for southern settlers, and a government-made territory for Native Americans.
The state is a large producer of natural gas, oil and food. It has large industries in aviation, energy, telecommunications, and biotechnology. The state has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation. Between 2005 and 2006, it had the third highest percentage of income growth and the highest percentage in gross domestic product growth. Oklahoma City and Tulsa are the main economic areas of Oklahoma. Almost 60 percent of Oklahomans live in these two metropolitan statistical areas. 

Oklahoma has small mountain ranges, prairies, and eastern forests. Most of Oklahoma is in the Great Plains. It is regularly hit by severe weather.

The cultural heritage of Oklahoma is made from by a population descending from many cultures. These include German, Irish, British and Native American people. There are more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma, more than in any other state. Many people in Oklahoma believe in evangelical Christianity. The state is part of the Bible Belt. Oklahoma is one of the most politically conservative states, but voter registration is largest for the Democratic Party.

Oklahoma has only been a state for a little over a century, but its history is much longer. Arrow heads from the Clovis culture, native Americans who traveled through Oklahoma have been found near the city Anadarko. These arrow heads are about 11,000 years old. The Spiro Mound Building Indians were the state's first permanent settlers. In 1541 the Spanish explorer Coranado traveled through Oklahoma while in search of the Lost City of Gold. During the 1830s, the Five Civilized Tribes were forced to move from the southeastern United States to Indian Territory (now Oklahoma) on the Trail of Tears. 

During the American Civil War (1861–1865), several Indian tribes sided with the Confederacy. The tribes owned slaves. They agreed with the ideas of the states that from the United States. Also, the tribes were not happy that the federal government did not do what it told them it would do. Not all the tribes sided with the Confederacy. Some tribes had taken control of several forts. This caused much of the Indian Territory to be under Confederate control, but Oklahoma did not become a Confederate state. The Battle of Honey Springs near Fort Gibson on July 17, 1863 was won by the Union forces. This ended the Confederate control of Indian Territory. 

On April 22, 1890, the western part of the state was opened to almost 50,000 settlers for the Oklahoma Land Run. During this land run Oklahoma got its nickname, "The Sooner State". The nickname came from the settlers who crossed the territory's borders before the land was opened by the government. A year later, the western part of the territory was turned into Oklahoma territory. The northeastern part, which was home to the Five Civilized Tribes, stayed under the control of the tribes. On November 16, 1907, the western and eastern territories joined together. They became the 46th state of the United States.

The newly formed state became an important place for the oil industry. The oil pools in the area caused the population of towns to grow very quickly. Tulsa became known as the "Oil Capital of the World" for most of the 20th century. The oil was a large part of the state's early economy. 

In 1927, Tulsa businessman Cyrus Avery, known as the "Father of Route 66", began a movement to make U.S. Route 66. Avery used section of highway that was already built between Tulsa and Amarillo, Texas to make the original portion of Highway 66. He was the main person responsible for making the U.S. Highway 66 Association to watch over the building of Route 66. 

During the 1930s, northwestern Oklahoma went through a period of time called the Dust Bowl. The area had little rainfall and high temperatures. This caused thousands of farmers to go into poverty and forced them to move to other parts of the United States. From 1930 to 1950, the state saw its only loss in population. It lost 6.9 percent of the people who lived there. Because of the Dust Bowl, the state made hundreds of reservoirs and man-made lakes. By the 1960s, more than 200 man-made lakes had been made. This is the most in the United States.

The song "Oklahoma!" was made the official song of the state in 1953. The song comes from the 1943 Broadway musical play "Oklahoma!". The story is set in Oklahoma Territory in 1906 just before Oklahoma became a state. 

On April 19, 1995, the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City was bombed by Timothy McVeigh. 168 people were killed in the bombing. This was the worst terrorism attack in the United States before the World Trade Center attacks on September 11, 2001. McVeigh and his partner, Terry Nichols, were both convicted of the bombing. Some people think other people were involved. McVeigh was later sentenced to death and executed by lethal injection on June 11, 2001. His partner, Nichols, was convicted of 161 counts of first degree murder. Nichols is spending the rest of his life in prison without the chance of being released.

The name "Oklahoma" comes from the Choctaw phrase "okla" "humma". This means "red" ("humma") "people" ("okla"). Choctaw Chief Allen Wright gave it that name in 1866 during treaty talks with the federal government about the use of Indian Territory. He dreamed of an all-Indian state with power held by the United States Superintendent of Indian Affairs. "Okla humma" was a phrase in the Choctaw language that meant the same as the English word "Indian". It was used to describe the Native American people all together. "Oklahoma" later became the "de facto" name for Oklahoma Territory. It was officially accepted in 1890, two years after the area was opened to white settlers.

Oklahoma is the 20th-largest state in the United States. It covers an area of ( are land and are water). The state is shaped like a pan with a long, thin section on the west side. This section, known as the "Panhandle", is from west to east, and from north to south.

It is one of six states on the Frontier Strip. The state is partly in the Great Plains near the center of the 48 continental states. It shares borders with Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas.

The highest point in the state is the Black Mesa, in the Panhandle at . The lowest point is Little River east of Idabel in the southeast part of the state at above sea level. There are four mountain ranges in Oklahoma. They are the Ouachita, Arbuckle, Wichita and Kiamichi ranges. All of the ranges are in the southern part of the state. Forests make up about 24 percent of the state. The state is also known for having more man-made lakes than any other state in the country. These lakes cover more than with water.

Oklahoma is in a temperate area of the country. The state sometimes sees extreme temperatures and rain that is commonly found in a continental climate. All of the state frequently has temperatures above or below . 

It snows in Oklahoma. In the northwest near the Colorado border, the area can get nearly in snowfall during the winter. The southeastern part of the state usually gets less than in snowfall. 

Most of the state is in an area known as Tornado Alley. This is because there is a lot of contact between cold and warm air masses which makes severe weather. Oklahoma has an average of 54 tornadoes each year. This is one of the highest rates in the world. The state is home to the National Storm Prediction Center of the National Weather Service, in Norman.

Oklahoma had 549 populated places in 2006. It had three cities over 100,000 in population and 40 over 10,000. Two of the fifty largest cities in the United States are in Oklahoma. They are Oklahoma City and Tulsa. More than half of Oklahomans (58%) live in the two cities. 

Oklahoma City is the state's capital and largest city. It had 1,269,907 people living inside its metropolitan area in 2008. Tulsa, the second largest city, had a metropolitan area population of 905,755.

Between 2005 and 2006, the Tulsa suburbs of Jenks, Bixby, and Owasso had the biggest population growth in the state. The population of Jenks grew by 47.9%, Bixby grew by 44.56%, and Owasso grew by 34.31%.

Oklahoma's largest cities in 2007 were: Oklahoma City (547,274), Tulsa (384,037), Norman (106,707), Lawton (91,568), Broken Arrow (90,714), Edmond (78,226), Midwest City (55,935), and Moore (51,106). Seven of the state's ten largest cities are in the metropolitan areas of Oklahoma City and Tulsa. Only Lawton has a metropolitan area of its own.

Oklahoma law says that populated areas are divided into two groups. Cities are areas with more than 1,000 people. Towns have fewer than 1,000 people. Both have legislative, judicial, and public power inside their populated areas. Cities can choose between a mayor-council, council-manager, or strong mayor form of government. Towns are run through an elected officer system.

Oklahoma has minor league sports teams in basketball, football, arena football, baseball, soccer, and ice hockey. These teams are in Oklahoma City, Tulsa, Enid and Lawton. Tulsa is home to the Tulsa 66ers. They are part the NBA Development League. The Tulsa Revolution, playing in the American Indoor Soccer League, is also in Tulsa. The NBA's New Orleans Hornets became the first major league sports team to play in Oklahoma. This happened after the team was forced to move to the Ford Center in Oklahoma City for two seasons after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. In July 2008, the Seattle SuperSonics moved to Oklahoma City. They play their home games at the Ford Center under the new team name, Oklahoma City Thunder. They are the state's first permanent major league team.

Oklahoma's state symbols are recognized by state law. The Oklahoma Senate or House of Representatives may add others for special events and to help organizations.

State symbols:



</doc>
<doc id="14793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14793" title="Terry Jacks">
Terry Jacks

Terry Jacks (born March 29, 1944) is a Canadian musician. He is most famous for his song "Seasons in the Sun" which was a huge hit in 1974. He now works as an environmental activist.


</doc>
<doc id="14794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14794" title="Sark">
Sark

Sark is one of the Channel Islands. Around 600 people live on Sark. Sark also has its own language called "Sercquiais." Only 15 people speak it. No cars are allowed on Sark, anyone on the island that want to go somewhere must either walk, go on a bicycle, or go by horse and cart. It became a democracy in 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="14798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14798" title="Robert Crumb">
Robert Crumb

Robert Crumb (born August 30, 1943) is a famous American cartoonist and musician. He founded the underground comics movement in the 1960s and early 1970s. He is most famous for the album cover for Big Brother and the Holding Company's "Cheap Thrills", the catchphrase "Keep on Truckin'" and "Fritz the Cat", which was made into a movie without his approval. He also collects 78 rpm phonograph records and plays the mandolin. He was the subject of an award-winning documentary movie made in 1994 called "Crumb".


</doc>
<doc id="14800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14800" title="Renée Zellweger">
Renée Zellweger

Renée Kathleen Zellweger (born on April 25, 1969 in Katy, Texas) is an American actress. She won an Academy Award for her role in the movie "Cold Mountain". She has acted in many movies, including "Jerry Maguire", "Bridget Jones's Diary", "Chicago" and "Cinderella Man".

Zellweger took acting classes because she wanted to make certain she graduated from the University of Texas with a literature degree. Zellweger appeared in many television shows, for example "A Taste for Killing" and "Shake, Rattle and Rock". Her first part in a movie was in "Dazed and Confused" followed by Ben Stiller’s "Reality Bites". 





</doc>
<doc id="14801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14801" title="Meryl Streep">
Meryl Streep

Meryl Streep (June 22, 1949) is an American actress. She has appeared in many films, including "Falling in Love", "The Bridges of Madison County", and "The House of Spirits". She was born in New Jersey.

Since September 30, 1978 Meryl married to Don Gummer. They have four children, son Henry Wolf Gummer (born on November 13, 1979) and daughters Mary Willa Gummer (born on August 3, 1983), Grace Jane Gummer (born on May 9, 1986), and Louisa Jacobson Gummer (born on June 12, 1991).


</doc>
<doc id="14805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14805" title="Bench">
Bench

A bench is a place where people can sit. Benches are long and often found outside, and more than one person can sit on them.


</doc>
<doc id="14807" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14807" title="List of national anthems">
List of national anthems

This is a list of national anthems.
This list shows the country on the left, the national anthem in the middle, and the meaning in English on the right. The names of states that do not exist anymore, or that are not independent nations, or the names of state organisations are "italicized".




























</doc>
<doc id="14808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14808" title="Celsius">
Celsius

Celsius (more precisely, a degree Celsius), sometimes called centigrade, is a unit of measurement used in many countries to measure temperature. This unit was created by Anders Celsius (1701–1744), a Swedish astronomer.

0 degrees (°) Celsius is the melting point of water at what is called "normal pressure". 
100° Celsius is the boiling point of water at normal pressure.

1 °C is therefore one hundredth (the 100th part) of that difference.

Since 1948 this unit has been called "Celsius". "Centigrade" was the name of the unit before the change. 

The other commonly used measurement of temperature is the Fahrenheit scale.

In 1742, "Anders Celsius" (1701–1744) made a “reversed” version of the modern Celsius temperature scale. In this scale, zero was the boiling point of water and 100 was the melting point of ice. In his paper "Observations of two persistent degrees on a thermometer," he wrote about his experiments. He could show in his experiments that the melting point of ice was basically unaffected by pressure. This was not the case for the boiling point of water. It varied as a function of atmospheric pressure. He proposed that zero on his temperature scale (water’s boiling point) would be calibrated at the mean barometric pressure at sea level. This pressure is known as one standard atmosphere. In 1954, Resolution 4 of the 10th CGPM (the General Conference on Weights and Measures) established internationally that one standard atmosphere was a pressure equivalent to 1,013,250 dynes per cm (101.325 kPa).

In 1744, the year Anders Celsius died, the famous Swedish botanist Carolus Linnaeus (1707–1778) effectively reversed Celsius’s scale when he received his first thermometer with a scale where zero represented the melting point of ice and 100 represented water’s boiling point. His custom-made “linnaeus-thermometer,” for use in his greenhouses, was made by Daniel Ekström, Sweden’s leading maker of scientific instruments at the time. Eckstöm's workshop was located in the basement of the Stockholm observatory. As often happened in this age before modern communications, numerous physicists, scientists, and instrument makers are credited with having independently developed this same scale;</sup> among them were Pehr Elvius, the secretary of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (which had an instrument workshop) and with whom Linnaeus had been corresponding; Christian of Lyons; Daniel Ekström, the instrument maker; and Mårten Strömer (1707–1770) who had studied astronomy under Anders Celsius.

The first known document reporting temperatures in this modern “forward” Celsius scale is the paper "Hortus Upsaliensis" dated 16 December 1745 that Linnaeus wrote to a student of his, Samuel Nauclér. In it, Linnaeus told the temperatures inside the orangery at the Botanical Garden of Uppsala University:

For the next 204 years, the scientific and thermometry communities worldwide referred to this scale as the “centigrade scale.” Temperatures on the centigrade scale were often reported simply as “degrees” or, when greater specificity was desired, “degrees centigrade.” The symbol for temperature values on this scale was °C (in several formats over the years). Because the term “centigrade” was also the Spanish and French language name for a unit of angular measurement (one-hundredth of a right angle) and had a similar connotation in other languages, the term “centesimal degree” was used when very precise, clear language was required by international standards bodies such as the Bureau international des poids et mesures (BIPM). The 9th CGPM (Conférence générale des poids et mesures) and the CIPM (Comité international des poids et mesures) formally adopted “degree Celsius” (symbol: °C) in 1948. For common people worldwide—including school textbooks—the full change from "centigrade" to "Celsius" required nearly two decades after this formal adoption.




</doc>
<doc id="14811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14811" title="Fahrenheit">
Fahrenheit

Fahrenheit (more precisely, a degree Fahrenheit) is a unit of measurement used to measure temperature. The conversion rate to Celsius is C= 5/9 x (F − 32). The degree Fahrenheit is abbreviated °F.

This temperature scale was made in 1724 by a German scientist named Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit. In the twentieth century, the unit declined in favour for the degree Celsius. It is still used often in the United States. In the United Kingdom, Fahrenheit is encountered on some websites, as well as some weather forecasts; the main reason for this is because some of the older population are more familiar with Fahrenheit.

The use of the degree Fahrenheit is in decline throughout the majority of the world with the USA being the main exception.




</doc>
<doc id="14815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14815" title="Agent">
Agent

An Agent, a person who acts on behalf of another person.

Agent can also mean:





</doc>
<doc id="14816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14816" title="Anthrax (disease)">
Anthrax (disease)

Anthrax, or splenic fever is a disease. Both humans and other animals can get it. It is caused by the bacterium bacillus anthracis. It is common with even-toed ungulates. The spores of the bacteria can live for hundreds of years. Humans usually catch the disease from animals. It is usually not passed from one human to another. Anthrax can be treated with antibiotics. There is also a vaccine against it. If not treated, anthrax often leads to death. 
There are 89 different kinds (strains) of anthrax. One of them, the Ames strain, was used against the United States in 2001 as a biological weapon.

On April 2, 1979, there was a leak at one of the plants just outside of Sverdlovsk that made anthrax during the Cold War. 94 people were affected and 64 of those people died. The USSR blamed the deaths on another strain of anthrax that the people caught by digesting infected meat.

At first, investigators from the United States and others found the story believable. During the administration of President Jimmy Carter the case was reopened. US investigators searched and found flaws and shared their suspicions with the public. The USSR denied it and still blamed it on the meat because of fear that they would be found out that they were making chemical weapons. Making chemical weapons violated the treaty of Biological Weapons Convention and an investigation was immediately done by other countries to see if their suspicions were true or not.

There were many cases of fake powder being found in envelopes.

The KGB had conducted a very thorough "cleansing" or confiscating all surviving records from all hospitals and other areas with recorded accounts and descriptions of the anthrax. The scientist made do and were able to track down survivors and people who witnessed the anthrax {such as nurses in hospitals}. Their results showed that on the day of the incident all the victims were clustered along a straight line downwind from the military facility. Livestock in the same area also died of anthrax. After completing their investigation, the team concluded the outbreak was caused by a release of an aerosol of anthrax pathogen at the military facility. But they were unable to determine what caused the release or what specific activities were conducted at the facility. According to an interview with Dr. Kanatjan Alibekov, former first deputy chief for Biopreparat (the civilian part of the Soviet biological weapons program), the anthrax airborne leak had been caused by workers at the military facility who forgot to replace a filter in an exhaust system. The mistake was realized shortly after, but by then some anthrax spores were released. Alibekov says if the wind had been in the opposite direction that day--toward the city of Sverdlovsk--the death rate could have been in the hundreds of thousands.

To this day, Western inspectors have not been allowed to visit this military facility.


</doc>
<doc id="14820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14820" title="Napoleon I of France">
Napoleon I of France

Napoleon Bonaparte (French: "Napoléon Bonaparte" , Italian: "Napoleone di Buonaparte"; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821), was a military and political leader of France. He was also Emperor of the French as Napoleon I. His actions shaped European politics in the early 19th century.

He was born in Corsica. His parents were of noble Italian birth. He trained as an officer in mainland France. Bonaparte became important under the First French Republic. He led successful campaigns against the First and Second Coalitions. In 1799, he staged a "coup d'état". Through this, he became a First Consul. Five years later the French Senate declared him Emperor. In the first ten years of the nineteenth century, the French Empire under Napoleon went through a great number of wars. These were called the Napoleonic Wars. Every great European power joined in these wars. After a number of victories, France became very important in continental Europe. Napoleon kept up their influence. He did this by making many . He also made friends and family members rule other European countries as French client states.

The French invasion of Russia in 1812 began a turning point in Napoleon's fortunes. His army was badly damaged in the campaign. It was never the same again. In 1813, the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig. The year after that, the Coalition attacked France. The Coalition also exiled Napoleon to the island of Elba. Less than a year later, he escaped Elba and became powerful again. However, he was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815. Napoleon spent the last six years of his life confined by the British on the island of Saint Helena. A doctor claimed he died of stomach cancer. However, Sten Forshufvud and other scientists have suggested that he was poisoned with arsenic.

Napoleon's campaigns are studied at military schools all over the world. He is remembered as a by the people who were against him. However, he is also remembered for making the Napoleonic code.

Napoleon Bonaparte was born in Casa Buonaparte in the town of Ajaccio, Corsica, on 15 August 1769. This was one year after the island was given to France by the Republic of Genoa. He was the second of eight children. He was named "Napoleone di Buonaparte". He took his first name from an uncle who had been killed fighting the French. However, he later used the more French-sounding "Napoléon Bonaparte".

The Corsican Buonapartes were from lower Italian nobility. They had come to Corsica in the 16th century. His father "Nobile" Carlo Buonaparte became Corsica's representative to the court of Louis XVI in 1777. The greatest influence of Napoleon's childhood was his mother, Maria Letizia Ramolino. Her firm education controlled a wild child. He had an older brother, Joseph. He also had younger siblings Lucien, Elisa, Louis, Pauline, Caroline and Jérôme. Napoleon was baptized as a Catholic just before his second birthday, on 21 July 1771 at Ajaccio Cathedral.

Napoleon was able to enter the military academy at Brienne in 1779. He was nine years old when he entered the academy. He moved to the Parisian École Royale Militaire in 1784 and graduated a year later as a second lieutenant of artillery. Napoleon was able to spend much of the next eight years in Corsica. There he played an active part in political and military matters. He came into conflict with the Corsican nationalist Pasquale Paoli, and his family was forced to flee to Marsille in 1793.

The French Revolution caused much fighting and disorder in France. At times, Napoleon was connected to those in power. Other times, he was in jail. He helped the French Republic from those royalist who supported the former king of France. In September 1793, he assumed command of an artillery brigade at the siege of Toulon, where royalist leaders had welcomed a British fleet and enemy troops. The British were driven out in December 17, 1793, and Bonaparte was rewarded with promotion to brigadier general and assigned to the French army in Italy in February 1794.

General Napoleon Bonaparte was later appointed by the republic to repel the royalists on October 5 1795. More than a 1400 royalists died and the rest fled. He had cleared the streets with "a whiff of grapeshot" according to the 19th-century historian Thomas Carlyle. He was then promoted to major general and mark his name on the French Revolution. 

The defeat of the Royalist rebellions ended the threat to the Convention and earned Bonaparte sudden fame, wealth, and the patronage of the new Directory. In March 9, 1796, Napoleon married Josephine de Beauharnais, a widow older than he was and a very unlikely wife to future ruler.

The campaign in Italy is the first time Napoleon led France to war. Late in March 1796, Bonaparte begins a series of operations to divide and defeat the Austrian and Sardinian armies in Italy. He defeated the Sardinians in April 21, adding Savoy and Nice to territories of France. Then, in a series of brilliant battles, he won Lombardy from the Austrians. Mantua, the last Lombard stronghold fell in February 1797.

In May 1798, General Napoleon left for a campaign in Egypt. The French needed to threaten Britain's empire in India and the French Directory's concerns that Napoleon would take control of France. The French Army under Napoleon won an overwhelming victory in the Battle of Pyramids. Barely 300 French soldiers died, while thousand of Mamluks (an old power in the Middle East) lay dead. But his army is weakened by bubonic plague and poor supplies. The Egyptian campaign was a military failure but a cultural success, the Rosetta Stone was found by a French engineer Captain Pierre-François Bouchard, and French scholar Jean-François Champollion was able to decipher the code in the stone. Napoleon went back to France because of a change in the French government. Some believe that Napoleon should not have left his soldiers in Egypt. Napoleon helped lead the Brumaire coup of November 1799.

Napoleon Bonaparte returned to Paris on October 1799. France's situation had been improved by a series of victories but Republic was bankrupt and the ineffective Directory was unpopular with the French population. He was approached by one of the Directors, Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès, for his support in a coup to overthrow the constitutional government. The leaders of the plot included his brother Lucien Bonaparte, the speaker of the Council of Five Hundred, Roger Ducos, another Director, Joseph Fouché, and Charles Maurice Talleyrand. The deputies had realised they faced an attempted coup. Faced with their remonstrations, Bonaparte led troops to seize control and disperse them, which left a rump legislature to name Bonaparte, Sièyes, and Ducos as provisional Consuls to administer the government.

Though Sieyès expected to dominate the new regime, he was outmanoeuvred by Bonaparte, who drafted the Constitution of the Year VIII and secured his own election as First Consul. This made Bonaparte the most powerful person in France and he took up residence at the Tuileries.

In 1800, Napoleon assured his power by crossing the Alps and defeating the Austrians at Marengo. He then negotiated a general European peace that established the Rhine River as the eastern border of France. He also concluded an agreement with the pope (the Concordat of 1801), which contributed to French domestic tranquility by ending the quarrel with the Roman Catholic Church that had arisen during the French Revolution. 

In France the administration was reorganized, the court system was simplified, and all schools were put under centralized control. French law was standardized in the Napoleonic Code, or civil code, and six other codes. They guaranteed the rights and liberties won in the Revolution, including equality before the law and freedom of religion.

In February 1804, a British-financial plot against Bonaparte was uncovered by the former police minister Joseph Fouche. It gave Napoleon a reason to start a hereditary dynasty. In December 2, 1804, Napoleon Bonaparte crowned himself "Emperor of the French" . People of the French did not see him as the monarch of the old regime because his holding a Roman position that has the glory related to it. He invited Pope Pius VII to see his coronation at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. During the ceremony, Napoleon I took the crown from the pope's hand and placed it on his own head. This had been agreed on between Napoleon and the Pope before the coronation. At Milan Cathedral on May 26 1805, Napoleon was crowned King of Italy with the Iron Crown of Lombardy.

To restore prosperity, Napoleon modernizes finance. He regulated the economy to control prices, encourage new industry, and build roads and canals. To ensure well-trained officials and military officers, he promoted a system of public schools under firm government control. He also backed off from some social reforms of the revolution. He made peace with the Catholic Church in the Concordat of 1801. The Concordat kept the Church under state control but recognized religious freedom for Catholics.

Napoleon I won support across class lines. He encourage émigré to return, provided they oath of loyalty. Peasants were relieved when he recognized their right to lands they had bought from Church and nobles during the revolution. Napoleon's chief opposition came from royalists and republicans.

Among Napoleon's most lasting reforms was a new law code, popularly called the Napoleonic Code. It embodied Enlightenment principles such as equality of all citizens before the law, religious toleration, and advancement based on virtue. But the Napoleonic Code undid some reforms of the French Revolution. Women, for example, lost most of their newly gained rights under the new code. the law considered women minors who could not exercise the rights of citizenship. Male heads of households regained full authority over their wives and children. Again, Napoleon valued order and authority over individual rights.

Emperor Napoleon abandoned plans to invade England and turned his armies against the Austro-Russian forces, defeating them at the Battle of Austerlitz on December 2, 1805. In 1806 Napoleon destroyed the Prussian army at Jena and Auerstädt and the Russian army at Friedland. He crowned his elder brother Joseph Bonaparte as King of Naples and Sicily in 1806 and converted the Dutch Republic into the kingdom of Holland for his brother Louis. Napoleon also established the Confederation of the Rhine (most of the German states) of which he was protector.

To legitimize his rule, he divorced his wife Joséphine and marry Marie Louise, duchess of Parma and daughter of the Emperor Francis I of Austria. Within a year, she delivered a son and heir to the Bonaparte Dynasty. He is named Napoléon François Joseph Charles Bonaparte or Napoleon II and is crowned King of Rome from his birth.

At Tilsit in July 1807, Napoleon made an ally of Russian tsar Alexander Romanov and greatly reduced the size of Prussia. He also added new states to the empire: the kingdom of Westphalia, under his youngest brother Jerome, the duchy of Warsaw, and others states.

The Congress of Erfurt sought to preserve the Russo-French alliance and the leaders had a friendly personal relationship after their first meeting at Tilsit in 1807. But the relationship is short-lived, in June 23, 1812, Napoleon went to war with Russia. They defeated many Russian cities and villages, but by the time they reached Moscow it was winter.Due to the Russian army's scorched earth tactics, the French found it increasingly difficult to forage food for themselves and their horses. Napoleon's army was unable to defeat the Russians. The Russians began to attack. Napoleon and his army had to go back to France. The French suffered greatly in the course of Napoleon's retreat. He withdrew back into France, his army reduced to 70,000 soldiers and 40,000 stragglers, against more than three times as many Allied troops. Finally at the Battle of Leipzig, he is defeated by the Allies: Britain, Russia, Austria, and Prussia.

Napoleon had no choice but to abdicate in favor of his son. However, the Allies refused to accept this. Napoleon abdicated without conditions on April 11, 1814. Before his official abdication, Napoleon attempted suicide with a pill but it did not work. In the Treaty of Fontainebleau the victors exiled him to Elba, an island of 12,000 inhabitants in the Mediterranean. The Allies allowed Napoleon to keep an imperial title "Emperor of Elba" and an allowance of 2 million francs a year. Napoleon even requested a 21 gun solute as emperor of the island of Elba. Many delegates feared that Elba was too close to Europe to keep such a dangerous force.

Separated from his son and wife, who had come under Austrian control, cut off from the allowance guaranteed to him by the Treaty of Fontainebleau, and aware of rumours he was about to be banished to a remote island in the Atlantic Ocean, Napoleon escaped from Elba on February 26 1815. He made a surprise march on March 1, 1815 to Paris. His former troops joined him and Louis XVIII fled to exile. He again became ruler of France for a length of 100 days. Napoleon was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo by the British under Duke of Wellington and Prussians on June 18 1815, which was his last battle. Napoleon was again captured and taken to his second exile on the island of Saint Helena on the Atlantic Ocean.

Napoleon was sent to the island of Saint Helena off the coast of Africa. He died on May 5, 1821 of stomach cancer. Napoleon kept himself informed of the events through The Times and hoped for release in the event that Holland became Prime Minister.There were other plots to rescue Napoleon from captivity including one from Texas, where exiled soldiers from the Grande Armée wanted a resurrection of the Napoleonic Empire in America. There was even a plan to rescue him with a primitive submarine. For Lord Byron, Napoleon was the epitome of the Romantic hero, the persecuted, lonely and flawed genius. The news that Napoleon had taken up gardening at Longwood also appealed to more domestic British sensibilities.

French people remain proud of Napoleon's glory days. The Napoleonic Code reflects the modern French Constitution. Weapons and other kinds of military technology remained largely static through the Revolutionary and Napoleonic eras, but 18th century operational mobility underwent significant change. Napoleon's biggest influence was in the conduct of warfare. His popularity would later help his nephew Louis-Napoléon to become ruler of France.

On the world stage, Napoleon's conquest spread the ideas of the revolution. He failed to make Europe into a French Empire. Instead, he sparked nationalist feeling across Europe.

“The surest way to remain poor is to be honest““Ability is of little account without opportunity.”“I can no longer obey; I have tasted command, and I cannot give it up.”“Women are nothing but machines for producing children.”“If you wish to be a success in the world, promise everything, deliver nothing.”“In politics... never retreat, never retract... never admit a mistake.”“He who fears being conquered is sure of defeat.”“Soldiers generally win battles; generals get credit for them”“The best cure for the body is a quiet mind.”“What is history but a fable agreed upon?”"A picture is worth a thousand words."

<div class="references-small" style="-moz-column-count:2; column-count:2;">


</doc>
<doc id="14823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14823" title="Wetzlar">
Wetzlar

Wetzlar is a city at the river Lahn in Hesse in Germany. The number of people in the city is about 53,000.
Wetzlar is near Frankfurt.

Wetzlar is famous for the historic Oldtown and for Goethe.

The camera maker Leica is there.

Wetzlar has a connection to the Autobahn 45 with three junctions.

Wetzlar is twinned with:


</doc>
<doc id="14825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14825" title="Andy Warhol">
Andy Warhol

Andy Warhol (born Andrew Warhola, Pittsburgh, August 6, 1928 - February 22, 1987) was one of the most famous American artists of the later half of the 20th century. 

Warhol graduated from the Carnegie Instutute of Technology before moving to New York. His first big break was in August 1949 when he was asked to illustrate an article in Glamour Magazine. He dropped the 'a' from the end of his name when the credits read "Drawings by Andrew Warhol". Warhol was also famous for painting Campbells and watties soup cans. He painted about 300 different paintings.

He originally worked as a commercial artist. He designed things like advertisements and window displays for stores. He soon became famous as an artist in the Pop Art movement, in which everyday objects and media images were used. One of his most famous paintings is his colourful portrait of American movie star, Marilyn Monroe. After she died he was deeply moved, and wanted to create a memorbila of some sort. 
Warhol died in hospital in New York City aged 58 after an operation on his gallbladder.


</doc>
<doc id="14827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14827" title="Romulus and Remus">
Romulus and Remus

Romulus and Remus were the legendary founders of Rome. In Roman mythology they were twin brothers, children of Rhea Silvia and the god Mars.

Rhea Silvia was the daughter of Numitor Silvius, king of Alba Longa, a legendary town founded by Ascanius, son of Aeneas, prince of Troy. When Numitor's brother Amulius became king by force, he made Rhea Silvia a Vestal Virgin, so she would not have children who could be kings instead of him. But the god Mars seduced her and she had the twins Romulus and Remus. Rhea Silvia was punished, and her sons were thrown into the Tiber, but were saved by the river god Tiberinus, who also saved Rhea Silvia and married her. Romulus and Remus were found by a wolf who suckled them. The brothers were later found by a shepherd, Faustulus, who raised them.

Romulus and Remus founded the city of Rome. But Romulus killed Remus in a fight and he went back to Amulius's palace and buried him .


</doc>
<doc id="14829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14829" title="Confucianism">
Confucianism

Confucianism is the philosophy based on the teachings of Confucius (511 BC - 479 BC), who was an important Chinese philosopher. Confucianism has a complex system of moral, social, political, and religious thought, and has had a large influence on the history of Chinese civilization.

Confucianism was made to stop the fall of Chinese society. After the Zhou Dynasty fell, people cared only for themselves and did not have any respect for others. Confucianism became a social order for China, teaching that social relationships are the most important. People slowly started to believe in it, because they wanted to have peace, but they had to care for themselves too. As a result, Confucianism brought the people love, harmony, and respect for one another.

Confucianism was started in Ch'u-fu, Confucius's birthplace. Today, Confucianism is spread all the way around the world, but is still more pronounced in China.

The teachings of Confucius focus largely on the respect of one's parents, elders, and ancestors. Also, he taught that humans 'can never stop learning'; meaning that knowledge is infinite, therefore we will always learn, never stopping. For example, he once asked a seven-year-old child to be his teacher, because the child knew something that he did not.


</doc>
<doc id="14830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14830" title="Category:Confucianism">
Category:Confucianism

This category is for articles which are about Confucianism and Confucius. You can help Wikipedia by adding to them.


</doc>
<doc id="14832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14832" title="Software hoarding">
Software hoarding

Software hoarding is when a person or a software company tries to stop some people from using or sharing their software.


</doc>
<doc id="14833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14833" title="Proprietary license">
Proprietary license

A proprietary license is a kind of license that has rules defined by its creators or owners. This kind of license does not come under purview of any country level or international law. The terms and conditions provided are defined only by the owner and/or creator.


</doc>
<doc id="14835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14835" title="Lead">
Lead

Lead (pronounce: "lehd") is a chemical element. Its chemical symbol is Pb, which comes from "plumbum", the Latin word for lead. Its atomic number is 82, atomic mass is 207.2 and has a melting point of 327.8°C. It is a very poisonous and heavy metal.

Lead is a shiny, gray-blue poor metal. It gets tarnished easily to a dull gray color. It is soft and malleable. It is very shiny when it is melted. It is very heavy. It is very corrosion-resistant. It is made stronger by adding antimony or calcium. It can form an alloy with sodium. It is toxic to people and animals when swallowed.

Lead burns in air with a grayish-white flame, making toxic fumes of lead(II) oxide. Only the surface is corroded by air. It dissolves in nitric acid to make lead(II) nitrate. It does not dissolve in sulfuric or hydrochloric acid. It reacts with sodium nitrate to make lead(II) oxide and sodium nitrite. It reacts with chlorine to make lead(II) chloride. Lead(II) oxide reacts with lead sulfide to make lead metal and sulfur dioxide.

Lead makes chemical compounds in two main oxidation states: +2 and +4. +2 compounds, also known as lead(II) compounds or plumbous compounds, are weak oxidizing agents. +4 compounds, also known as lead(IV) compounds or plumbic compounds, are strong oxidizing agents. Lead compounds are toxic just like the element. The lead halides do not dissolve in water. Lead(IV) oxide is the most common lead(IV) compound. It is a black solid. The lead oxides are all colored, while the other salts are white or colorless. Lead nitrate and lead(II) acetate are the soluble compounds of lead.

Lead is found very rarely in the earth's crust as a metal. Normally, lead is in the mineral galena. Galena is lead sulfide. Galena is the main lead ore.

Lead was used for thousands of years because it is easy to get from the ground and easy to shape and work with. The Romans used lead very commonly. They used it for pipes, drinking vessels, and fasteners.

Lead is made from galena. Galena is made pure by froth flotation to get all the impurities out. Then the lead sulfide is roasted in a furnace to make lead(II) oxide. The lead(II) oxide is heated with coke to make liquid lead metal.

Lead is used in the ballast of sailboats. It is also used in weight belts for scuba diving. It is also used to make shotgun pellets and bullets for small arms. Some printing presses use lead type because it can be easily shaped. It can be used outside because it does not corrode in water. 

Most lead is used in lead acid batteries, though. The lead is oxidized, making electricity. Sheets of lead are used to block sound in some places. Lead is used in radiation shielding. Molten lead can be used as a coolant in nuclear reactors. It used to be mixed with tin to make the pipes in pipe organs. Different amounts of lead make different sounds.

It is used in some solder. It is used in covering for wires that carry high voltage. Some tennis rackets have lead in them to make them heavier. It is used to balance wheels of cars, to make statues, and to make decorative looks in buildings.

Many lead compounds are used to make colored glazes in ceramics. Lead can be used in PVC pipes. Lead compounds are added to candles to make them burn better. Lead glass has lead(II) oxide in it. Lead compounds are still used as pigments in some places. Lead compounds were added to gasoline, but are now outlawed. Some lead compounds are semiconductors and are used in photodetectors. 

Lead was used in many red, yellow, and white pigments in paints. Lead was also used in pesticides. Lead used to be used in pipes carrying water, but now it is not because lead can leach into the water. Lead cannot be used for shotgun pellets anymore.

Although it can be safely touched, exposure to lead should be avoided – it is very toxic to humans and other animals when swallowed, and its use is restricted in many countries. 

If someone is exposed to lead for a long time, it ruins their kidneys and gives them abdominal pains. Lead also ruins the nervous system. Lead paint was being eaten by children and they were getting lead poisoning.



</doc>
<doc id="14839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14839" title="Category:1788 births">
Category:1788 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1788.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14840" title="Bell">
Bell

A bell is a simple musical instrument. Most bells are made of metal. Bells are also in churches to announce the time between hours.


</doc>
<doc id="14841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14841" title="Transformers (toy line)">
Transformers (toy line)

Transformers are robots that turn into other things. Usually they turn into vehicles, like cars or jets.

Transformers started in 1984 as a toy line, but then an animated series and a comic book were made. In 1986 a movie came out. In 2002 a new series and story line called Transformers Armada came out. this was followed by two more shows, Energon and Cybertron.

Transformers is about different things sometimes. Usually it is about the heroic Autobots fighting the evil Decepticons. The Autobots are usually led by Optimus Prime. The Decepticons are led by Megatron.


</doc>
<doc id="14842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14842" title="Simple">
Simple

When something is simple, it is very easy to understand or do. The opposite is hard or "difficult". Simplicity is the measurement of how simple something is.

The simple English Wikipedia is in Simple English so all people can understand what is written in it. When an article or page has an article that has difficult, advanced English, a () is used. This is what the complex template says:


"Simple" can mean something that is only made up of a few parts. It is not complicated:

"Simple" can mean that something or someone is humble (lowly) or common:

"Simple" can also be used to refer to someone whose mind thinks in a very simple way, like those who need this wiki. Calling a person "simple minded" is usually rude.



</doc>
<doc id="14844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14844" title="Mathematician">
Mathematician

A mathematician is someone who studies mathematics, either as a hobby or as a job. Many mathematicians are math professors at universities.


</doc>
<doc id="14849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14849" title="West Virginia">
West Virginia

West Virginia is a state in the United States. Its capital and largest city is Charleston. It is often abbreviated W. Va. or simply WV.

West Virginia is bordered by Pennsylvania to the north, by Ohio to the north and west, by Kentucky to the west, by Maryland to the north and east, and by Virginia to the east and south. The Ohio and Potomac Rivers form parts of the boundaries.

West Virginia became a state in 1863.
West Virginia was once a part of Virginia. At the beginning of the American Civil War, Virginia and the other southern states seceded from the United States, which means they chose to not be a part of it anymore. The people in the western part of the state felt that they had very little power in the state's affairs, including its decision to secede. They seceded from Virginia and formed their own state, West Virginia. After the war, the United States was brought back together, but West Virginia never rejoined Virginia.

West Virginia is often called the "Mountain State" because it is entirely within the Appalachian Mountain Range, and there are many hills and mountains throughout the state. The highest one is Spruce Knob, which is 4,863 feet above sea level. There are many rivers, including the Ohio, the Potomac, the Kanawha, and the Monongahela.


</doc>
<doc id="14850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14850" title="Virginia">
Virginia

Virginia is a state in the United States. Its capital is Richmond and its largest city is Virginia Beach. The official name of Virginia is the "Commonwealth of Virginia".

Virginia is bordered by West Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia (across the Potomac River) to the north, by Chesapeake Bay and the Atlantic Ocean to the east, by North Carolina and Tennessee to the south, and by Kentucky and West Virginia to the west.

Virginia became a state in 1788 after the American Revolution.

Before it became a state of the United States, Virginia was a colony of Great Britain. Virginia was founded (started) in 1607.

The state of West Virginia used to be part of Virginia. When the American Civil War happened, Virginia left (seceded from) the United States and joined the Confederate States of America. The western counties of Virginia seceded from Virginia to form a new state which was loyal to the Union. After the end of the Civil War, Virginia became part of the United States again in 1870, but the counties that had left to start West Virginia did not join Virginia again.

Virginia is the state where eight United States presidents were born. This is more than any other state.


</doc>
<doc id="14851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14851" title="Vermont">
Vermont

Vermont is a state in the United States. Its capital is the city of Montpelier, and its largest city is Burlington.

Vermont borders Massachusetts to the south, New Hampshire to the east, New York to the west, and the Canadian province of Quebec to the north.

Vermont became a state in 1791 C.E. It is world-renowned for its maple syrup industry, and many tourists go to see brilliant colors the trees become in the fall months. The tourism industry has become quite successful, with many tourists coming every year.


</doc>
<doc id="14852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14852" title="South Carolina">
South Carolina

South Carolina is a state in the southeast United States. Its capital and largest city is Columbia. The population of the state is about 4.2 million people, ranked 24th in the United States. The state is relatively small in land area, ranked 40th largest.

Other important cities in South Carolina are Charleston, Greenville, Spartanburg, Anderson, Sumter, and Florence.

Major landforms include beaches, "barrier islands", salt marsh, sand hills, rolling piedmont, and the Blue Ridge Mountains. Because of its natural beauty, the state attracts many tourists, especially to Myrtle Beach, Charleston, and Hilton Head Island.

South Carolina became a state in 1788. The economy was agriculture-based, known for cotton, rice, indigo, and tobacco. After the American Civil War, the state lost much of its political and economic power. Towards the end of the 20th century, the state began to strengthen its economy and add population. Today, the major industries are tourism, textiles (clothing materials), and manufacturing. South Carolina has the second highest number of workers employed by international companies per capita in the United States.

South Carolina is bounded to the north by North Carolina, to the south and west by Georgia, located across the Savannah River, and to the east by the Atlantic Ocean.


</doc>
<doc id="14853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14853" title="Rhode Island">
Rhode Island

Rhode Island is the smallest state in the United States. The capital and largest city is Providence.

Rhode Island was one of the original Thirteen Colonies, and became a state (agreed to the new Constitution) in 1790.

Rhode Island is bordered on the north and east by Massachusetts, on the west by Connecticut, and on the south by Rhode Island Sound and the Atlantic Ocean. It shares a water border with New York. Rhode Island was founded by Roger Williams for religious freedom.


</doc>
<doc id="14854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14854" title="North Carolina">
North Carolina

North Carolina is one of the fifty states in the United States. The capital of North Carolina is Raleigh and the biggest city in the state is Charlotte. North Carolina is split up into 100 counties and these counties are split up into many cities and towns.

North Carolina was one of the original thirteen colonies and was where the first English colony in America lived. As of July 1, 2007, there are about 9,061,032 people living in the state.

North Carolina is connected to South Carolina on the south, Georgia on the southwest, Tennessee on the west, Virginia on the north, and the Atlantic Ocean on the east. There are three main sections in North Carolina: the coastal plain, the piedmont, and the mountains. The coastal plain is the eastern part of the state, the piedmont is the middle, and the mountains are the western part of the state. North Carolina also has some islands that are called The Outer Banks. They are in the ocean to the east of the state.

North Carolina has many different kinds of weather in different parts of the state throughout the year.

The eastern part of the state is by the Atlantic Ocean, so it usually has comfortable temperatures all year long. The temperature usually does not go above 90 °F in the summer or under 40 °F in the winter. Most years there is less then one inch of snow in eastern North Carolina, and some years there is no snow at all. The coastal plain usually gets a tropical storm every 3 or 4 years.

The middle part of North Carolina is not as close to the ocean as the eastern part, so the weather is different. The temperature goes above 90 °F many times every summer and it goes below freezing many times in the winter. Sleet and freezing rain are common in this part of North Carolina.

There are mountains in the western part of North Carolina, so the temperatures are usually cool for most of the year. The temperature almost never goes above 80 °F in the summer and is usually in the high 30’s or low 40’s in the winter. The mountains usually get 14 to 20 inches of snow each year.

At first, only Native Americans lived in North Carolina. In 1584, Sir Walter Raleigh made two colonies in North Carolina, but they both did not last long. One of the colonies became known as the Lost Colony and is still one of the biggest mysteries in American history.

The first permanent settlers in North Carolina came from the state of Virginia in 1655 because there was not enough farmland in Virginia.

North Carolina was an important state during the American Revolutionary War.

In 1860, North Carolina was a slave state. About 1/3 of the people in the state were slaves. North Carolina fought as part of the Confederacy during the Civil War. The state sent about 125,000 troops to fight in the war and about 40,000 of them died. Even during the war some people in North Carolina did not support the Confederacy, mostly because the Confederacy believed in slavery. The first Confederate soldier to be killed was from North Carolina.

Farmers in North Carolina grow many things, such as poultry and eggs, tobacco, hogs, milk, cattle, sweet potatoes, and soybeans. North Carolina grows more tobacco then any other state in the country. Furniture making is an important industry in North Carolina, but over the past few years many jobs have moved to other countries like China and India.

Charlotte, the biggest city in North Carolina, is the second biggest banking center in the United States, making banking very important in North Carolina. BB&T, Bank of America, and Wachovia all have their main offices in the state.

Technology is also important in North Carolina. There are many companies that make computer software and video games in the state.

There are many big roads in North Carolina. North Carolina has more state maintained roads than any other state in the United States. The biggest roads are:
There are many airports major and international airports in North Carolina. These are:


</doc>
<doc id="14855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14855" title="New Jersey">
New Jersey

New Jersey is one of the 50 states of the United States of America. It is located in the northeastern section of the country along the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. It is a small state, shaped like a letter [S], and bordered on the west by Pennsylvania and Delaware across the Delaware River, on the north by New York, on the northeast by the Hudson River and New York City, on the east and southeast by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the southwest by Delaware Bay.

The capital of New Jersey is Trenton and the largest city is Newark, though New Jersey is better known for bordering the large cities of New York City and Philadelphia. The state nickname is "The Garden State". The current governor is Chris Christie.

New Jersey is the fourth-smallest state, but has the eleventh-highest population. It therefore has the highest population density (population per land area) in the United States. New Jersey is also well-known for its beaches, industries, swamps, and pine forests.

The climate is hot & humid summers and cold winters. About 1200 mm of precipitation every year.
The average temperature in July is 25-30 degrees celsius and in January around freezing point.
Before the landfill came, the land that is now New Jersey was inhabited by the Lenape, who were nomads, hunters, and farmers. The Dutch came to the northern area of the state in the 1630's. In the mid 1640s, a wave of ennui swept over the Dutch region of New Jersey, promptly causing all of the residents to sit on the cliffsides and ponder their existence, whilst they coveted the view that is New York. Realizing their existences were futile in their current location, the Dutch looked upon the land they were cultivating and realized that it was pure and utter shite. Knowing that being on said land would only cause them future grief and constant mockery and disgrace, the Dutch colony gathered together on the cold and uninviting evening of September 16th, 1646 and jumped in what is today known as the Hudson river from their cliffside homes. Hoping to repent for their sins of being awash in the New Jersey horror, the Dutch sought for the waters of the Hudson to carry them into the mouth of the New York harbor. While many died, the few remaining landed in what is today's Staten Island. Meanwhile Swedish colonists inhabited the southern part of the state.The Swedish, were acclimated quite well in the New Jersey landscape, up until the 1670s. Between January of 1671 and March of 1671, twelve Swedish villages mysteriously burned down in an arsonist conspiracy. The Counsel of Swedish Villagers convened in early February to discuss the sudden rejection of the Swedish people by the land of New Jersey. Though no conclusions could be drawn, the Swedish people remained wary - until 1673 when they noticed most of the newborn children either coming down with illness, or infants being stillborn. Hysteria abruptly swept the village's women and older gentlemen, causing them to go into a deep state of grief and starve to death. After most of the elderly and women died, the remaining Swedish villagers felt a disconnect to the land, and had decided to leave, in order to preserve the rest of their people. Unfortunately, before the remaining villagers could do so the English came and controlled the area. The King of England, Charles II, gave the land to George Carteret, who was the governor of Jersey, an island in the English Channel Though he, unlike the Dutch, tried to actually sell the land to the Native Americans, they adamantly refused to buy such cursed land. The English reluctantly established a town at what is now called Elizabeth. Under the decree of the mayor, all newborn females were to have a variation of the name Elizabeth. According to the current 2010 census, the most prevalent variation of the name is "Lizanya" 

New Jersey took part in the American Revolutionary War, and was an important crossroads for soldiers on both sides. On Christmas in 1776, George Washington's army entered New Jersey to attack British soldiers at Trenton. But then they saw how much it sucked and turned around. The British army won, which is one of the most famous battles in American history. But then the British realized where the fuck they were, got on their ships, and sailed back to England in shame. Later the rebels would drive the mysteriously resilient and adamant British residents out of Princeton and for a time establish a national capital there. New Jersey would be the third state to join the United States of America and the first to approve the Bill of Rights. This was only to ensure that New Jersey, rather than Staten Island, would become the third state to join the United States of America. Many New Yorkers to this day, are still bitter about the decision and are resentful of New Jersey for dumping Staten Island onto them.

New Jersey has 21 counties.


</doc>
<doc id="14856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14856" title="New Hampshire">
New Hampshire

New Hampshire is a state in the United States. Its capital is Concord and its largest city is Manchester.

New Hampshire was a British colony before the American War of Independence. It became the ninth state on June 21, 1788, when it accepted the United States Constitution. 

The state motto is "Live Free or Die" and the nickname is the Granite State. The state flower is the lilac and the state bird is the purple finch. New Hampshire is part of New England. It is bordered by Maine in the East, Massachusetts to the South, Vermont to the West, and Quebec, a Canadian province, to the North. 

New Hampshire's tourist attractions include the Lakes Region, the White Mountains, the autumn leaves, and the New Hampshire Motor Speedway in Loudon. Some famous people from New Hampshire are Franklin Pierce, Mary Baker Eddy, Adam Sandler, and members of the band Aerosmith. New Hampshire is also famous for being the first state to vote in the Presidential primaries.

Its population was estimated to be 1,315,809 in 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="14861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14861" title="Watch glass">
Watch glass

A watch glass is used for temporary storage of solids and sometimes liquids (in small amounts).


</doc>
<doc id="14862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14862" title="Funnel">
Funnel

A funnel is an object with a wide top and a narrow tube at the bottom and this is used for pouring liquids into a container.

A funnel is also a round metal chimney on top of a ship or train.


</doc>
<doc id="14864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14864" title="Evaporating basin">
Evaporating basin

An evaporating basin is used to solutions -- that is, to turn them from a liquid state into gaseous state.


</doc>
<doc id="14865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14865" title="Measuring cylinder">
Measuring cylinder

A measuring cylinder or graduated cylinder is used to measure the volume of liquids.
A measuring cylinder is used for measuring solutions, liquids and also water. For example, a solution made up of "salt" and "water" could be measured ranging from 5cm3 to dm3 .


</doc>
<doc id="14875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14875" title="Constantinople">
Constantinople

Constantinople (Greek: Κωνσταντινούπολις, Konstantinoúpolis, or Πόλις, Polis) was the capital of the Roman Empire (330-395), the Byzantine/East Roman Empire (395-1204 and 1261-1453), the Latin Empire (1204-1261), and the Ottoman Empire (1453-1922). In 1930, It was renamed Istanbul. It is a city in present day Turkey.

Istanbul was fought over in the Crusades. It was sieged multiple times by the Christian crusaders and the muslims who each claimed it as their own.




</doc>
<doc id="14880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14880" title="Mormonism">
Mormonism

Mormonism is a religious movement. The people that belong to this religion are called Latter-day Saints, or Mormons. Their teachings are similar to many Christian churches, and they consider themselves to be Christian. Some people do not agree that Mormons are Christians, because Mormons have beliefs that are different from the normal beliefs of other Christian churches. The Mormon Church considers itself a restoration church. This means that members of the Church believe that it is the original Christian Church started by Jesus Christ and brought back ("restored") by Joseph Smith, Jr. in 1830. At first it was called The Church of Christ. Today there are about 70 groups who call themselves "Mormon" or "Latter day Saint". 
Joseph Smith, Jr. said that he had visits from God the Father, Jesus Christ, and many angels. The first visit is called the First Vision. It happened in the spring of 1820 when Joseph was 14 years old. He had decided to pray about which religion to join. He said that he went to the woods behind his family's house in New York, prayed, felt evil powers fighting him, and was rescued when a bright light appeared above him. In the bright light, he said that he saw God the Father and Jesus Christ. They told him not to join any church, because none of the churches had all of the truth. They also told him that they had work for him to do.

Part of the work that Joseph did was translating the Book of Mormon. Joseph said that an angel named Moroni visited him and showed him where a very old book was buried. This book was written on pages of gold (sometimes called the Gold Plates). It was buried in a stone box in a hill near Joseph's home. Moroni visited Joseph once a year for four years until he told Joseph to take the Gold Plates. Since the book was written in a very old language, Joseph translated the book into English. He did this with help from God and by the tools called the "Urim" and "Thummim". The book was published as The Book of Mormon in 1830. It tells the story of two main groups of people who lived in North and South America hundreds of years ago (the Nephites and Lamanites). It also teaches many things about Jesus. To members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, The Book of Mormon is a special book from God just like the Bible. Mormons believe that by reading The Book of Mormon and the Bible, people can learn how to get closer to God and how to find happiness in life. This book is also the reason Church members are sometimes called "Mormons".

Today the center of the Church is in Utah, but there are more than 13 million Mormons living all over the world. The leader of the Church is called the president, and Mormons call him a prophet. They believe that God guides the prophet, just like He guided Joseph Smith and the prophets in the Bible. Mormons believe that it is important for families to spend a lot of time together, and that after they die, they can live together forever. Mormons do not drink alcohol, coffee, tea, or smoke tobacco. They meet once a week on Sunday for church, where they have the sacrament and listen to short talks or sermons. They also have Sunday School to learn more. The Church also has activities during the week. Mormons also have buildings called temples. These are the most holy buildings in their religion. After a temple has been dedicated, only Mormons that are living good lives can go in the temple.

Today, there are three main movements in Mormonism, although one is by far the largest. They are represented by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Community of Christ and the Church of Christ with the Elijah Message. When people talk about Mormons, they usually mean the followers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which is the largest Mormon movement. This movement also says that the term "Mormon" a nick name given to members early in the churches history, and would prefer to be referred to as "Latter-day Saints" or "LDS".

Some people who call themselves Mormons are not part of the "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." These people belong to other Mormon churches. Some of their beliefs are different. 

When Brigham Young became the second president of the Church after Joseph Smith was killed, some people did not think he was the rightful president. When Brigham Young lead most of the Mormons to Utah, these people stayed in Illinois. They believed that Joseph Smith's son should be the next president. Today, this church is called the Community of Christ. It is the second largest church to call themselves Mormons. They have more than 250,000 people in their church.

Other splits in the Church happened later. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) teaches that a man should only marry one woman. This is called monogamy. In the beginning of the church, this was different. A man could be married to more than one woman at the same time (called polygamy). When the Church changed its position in 1890, some people left the official Church and continued with polygamy. These groups are very small compared to the LDS. The groups that did not want to abandon polygamy are sometimes still called "Mormon", even though in the official church, polygamy has been forbidden since 1890. Most of these smaller groups stay away from other people, since polygamy is illegal in the United States. The LDS tells people not to use the word "Mormon" or pictures of Church leaders and temples when talking about these groups, since it makes it seem like they are still connected to the LDS even though they are not.

There are many practices in Mormonism that are very similar to those used in Christian movements. There are some practices, however, where the Mormon movement is noticeably different from orthodox Christian movements, such as Catholic, Orthodox, or Protestant faiths. People who define Christianity as belonging to one of those demominations have to say that Mormonism is not a Christian movement.

In English, the LDS Church accepts the King James Version of the Bible as a part of its official scripture.

In the beginning, the Mormon movement said that it restored the Christian faith and that the other movements at the time held beliefs that were wrong. In the 1830s, the movement quickly gained members that had come from Christian movements. Many Christians of the time saw the some of the practices and beliefs the Mormon movement held at that time as politically and culturally subversive. The most controversial of these included the idea that slavery was wrong, men being able to have more than one wife, and the church's wanting to run a government with laws based on Mormonism. Some of these beliefs are no longer held by most Mormon movements today. Such disagreements led to violent conflicts between Mormons and other Christian groups. Even though there is not really violence anymore, the movement's unique doctrinal views are still criticized.

Mormons believe in Jesus Christ as the literal firstborn Son of God and Messiah, his crucifixion as a conclusion of a sin offering, and resurrection. 
However, Latter-day Saints (LDS) reject the ecumenical creeds and definition of the Trinity taught by the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Anglican Communion, and Trinitarian Protestantism. 
In their view, the New Testament prophesied that people would turn away from Christian teachings, and that there would be a restoration to the situation before the second coming of Christ. 

Some imporatnt differences with mainstream Christianity include: A belief that Jesus began his atonement from sin in the garden of Gethsemane and continued it until he was crucifixion, rather than the orthodox belief that the crucifixion alone was the physical atonement. In their view, heaven is divided into three degrees of glory, with hell (often called spirit prison) being a temporary repository for the wicked between death and the resurrection. Additionally, Mormons do not believe in creation ex nihilo, they believe that matter is eternal, and that God organizes existing matter.

Much of the Mormon belief system is oriented geographically around the North and South American continents. Mormons believe the people of the Book of Mormon lived in the western hemisphere, that Christ appeared in the western hemisphere after his death and resurrection, that the true faith was restored in upstate New York by Joseph Smith, and that the Garden of Eden and location of Christ's second coming were and will be in the state of Missouri. For this and other reasons, including a belief by many Mormons in American exceptionalism, Molly Worthen speculates that this may be why Leo Tolstoy described Mormonism as the "quintessential 'American religion'".


</doc>
<doc id="14881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14881" title="Mohammad Khatami">
Mohammad Khatami

Seyyed Mohammad Khatami (سید محمد خاتمی), born October 14, 1943 was President of Iran from August 2, 1997 to August 2, 2005 and was followed by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Khatami studied islamic theology in Qom, and philosophy in Isfahan. Khatami built upon the idea of a lawful state, called Rechtsstaat, of democracy and of social equality. He was the first Iranian president to officially do so. These tenets led to conflicts with the government of Iran. Khatami is seen as a reformist. He is currently a prominent supporter of the Iranian Green Movement, and a critic of of the government, led by president Ahmadinejad. 



</doc>
<doc id="14903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14903" title="Cider">
Cider

Cider (or cyder) is a drink made from fruit juice, most often from apples.

In Europe and Oceania it is an alcoholic drink that is made from apple juice, through a process called fermentation. In the United States and parts of Canada, cider containing alcohol is called hard cider or alcoholic cider, while "cider" or "apple cider" means less-sweet, usually unfiltered, apple juice.

In the United States and Canada people drink a special kind of cider around Halloween and Thanksgiving. This cider is usually unfiltered, rather thick, and it is often heated and spiced with cinnamon before drinking it. This is different from the cider in Europe, which usually is not heated.

Usually to make cider, apples with a high concentration of tannins are chosen. The fermentation of the apples takes place at around 4-15° Celsius. The temperature influences the duration of the fermentation. The temperature at which the fermentation occurs also has an effect on the taste of the cider.

Shortly before all the sugar has been fermented away, the cider is put in a new barrel which is made air-tight. The rest of the sugar will then become carbonic acid. This will also add to the life-span of the cider (no pasteurisation is needed).

Cider is also the starting-point for distilling Calvados. This alcoholic drink is famous and very expensive.

Cider is made almost anywhere where there are cider-apple trees, most notably

In France, Normandy is the first region as to the production of cider-apples (300 000 tonnes), and the first in cider production (7000 kilolitres).

In France, some ciders can benefit from a protected naming. This is the "cidre normand" and the "cidre breton".

France is the country in the world that produces the biggest quantity of cider.

The United Kingdom produces the most varieties, and along with Ireland holds the biggest market for cider.

Hard cider contains alcohol, which affects the taste of the cider. This can be influenced by choosing the right moment when to stop fermentation:

In France, the most popular are the first, second and fourth categories. In the English-speaking countries, it is possible to find cider with up to 12° of alcohol.

The French and Spanish cuisines have recipes where cider is needed to make them. The French and Spanish also often drink cider instead of wine made from grapes.

In Europe, many young people drink cider. Cider costs less than wine, and is often served in pubs and other places where young people go.

The effects of cider are the same as those of any alcoholic drink.


</doc>
<doc id="14912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14912" title="1499">
1499



</doc>
<doc id="14915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14915" title="Bison">
Bison

""Buffalo" redirects here. For the city in New York, see Buffalo, New York."

Bisons are a group of even-toed ungulate mammals. They form the genus Bison of the subfamily Bovinae and the family Bovidae. They are the biggest mammals in North America.


Bison live in the northern part of the world. The American Bison lives in North America, and the Wisent lives in Europe. They can also live in rugged areas.

They live to be about 20 years old and are born without their "hump" or horns, which both males and females have. After shedding their light colored hair, and with their horns, they are grown at 2 to 3 years of age, but the males keep growing slowly until about age seven. Adult bulls are very dominant in mating season. Adult bison usually have one or two baby bison.

American Bison are large, plant-eating mammals that are similar to cows. Even though they are often called buffalo, they are not really related to them. They used to wander around the prairies of North America in huge herds. There used to be as many as 30 million bison in the United States, but because of hunting, by 1890, only 1,000 bison were left. Through conservation efforts, there are now more American bison than there used to be, but still far fewer than there were before the 1800s.


</doc>
<doc id="14920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14920" title="Baseball cap">
Baseball cap

A baseball cap is a kind of hat, worn by baseball players, when they play as part of their uniform, but other people wear them, too.


</doc>
<doc id="14929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14929" title="Category:New Hampshire">
Category:New Hampshire


</doc>
<doc id="14930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14930" title="Category:West Virginia">
Category:West Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="14931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14931" title="Category:Virginia">
Category:Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="14932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14932" title="Category:Vermont">
Category:Vermont


</doc>
<doc id="14933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14933" title="Category:South Carolina">
Category:South Carolina


</doc>
<doc id="14934" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14934" title="Category:Rhode Island">
Category:Rhode Island


</doc>
<doc id="14935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14935" title="Category:North Carolina">
Category:North Carolina


</doc>
<doc id="14936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14936" title="Category:New Jersey">
Category:New Jersey


</doc>
<doc id="14937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14937" title="Category:Iowa">
Category:Iowa


</doc>
<doc id="14938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14938" title="Category:Kansas">
Category:Kansas


</doc>
<doc id="14939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14939" title="Category:Maryland">
Category:Maryland


</doc>
<doc id="14940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14940" title="Category:New Mexico">
Category:New Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="14941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14941" title="Category:North Dakota">
Category:North Dakota


</doc>
<doc id="14942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14942" title="Category:South Dakota">
Category:South Dakota


</doc>
<doc id="14944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14944" title="Category:Oklahoma">
Category:Oklahoma


</doc>
<doc id="14945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14945" title="Category:1548">
Category:1548


</doc>
<doc id="14946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14946" title="Windows 95">
Windows 95

Windows 95 was an operating system by Microsoft released in 1995. It was popular from 1995 until 1998 when Microsoft replaced it with Windows 98. 

Windows 95 added many new features to the last Windows operating system, which was Windows 3.x. Windows 95 was the first Windows with the "Start" button. Since then it has been used in all Windows operating systems.

Windows 95 was Microsoft's first operating system to support long file names. Before that, file names could only be eight characters (letters, numbers, or symbols) long, plus the file extension.

Although Windows 95 is thought of as a full operating system, it works over MS-DOS. Windows 95 is like a visual version of DOS. This means that Windows 95 can run both MS-DOS programs and Windows ones, but programs made just for Windows 95 will not work in DOS.

Windows 95 was also Microsoft's first operating system to fully support CD-ROMs, though Windows 3.x could also access CD-ROMs.



</doc>
<doc id="14948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14948" title="Otto von Bismarck">
Otto von Bismarck

Prince Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck-Schönhausen Duke of Lauenburg (1 April 1815–30 July 1898) was a very well known aristocrat and statesman of the 19th century in Europe. As Prime Minister of Prussia from 1862 to 1890, he was mainly responsible for unifying the many independent German countries and founding the German Empire in 1871. He became the first chancellor of the new Empire.

He was "Graf von Bismarck-Schönhausen" (Count Bismarck-Schönhausen) in 1865, then since 1871 "Fürst" von Bismarck (Prince Bismarck) and since 1890 the "Herzog von Lauenburg" (Duke of Lauenburg). First he did not want the duke title, but accepted it later.

Bismarck was very conservative and he was strongly connected to the monarchy. He was not a big supporter of democracy. His most important goal was to make Prussia stronger and he achieved that through the unification of Germany. Bismarck tried to stop the socialist movement and to reduce the power of the Catholic Church. One way to stop socialism was to make the working class happy. He did that by introducing many social reforms like public health and accident insurance, as well as pensions for old people.


</doc>
<doc id="14949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14949" title="Differential calculus">
Differential calculus

Differential calculus, a branch of calculus, is the process of finding out the rate of change of a variable compared to another variable, by using functions. It is a way to find out how a shape changes from one point to the next, without needing to divide the shape into an infinite number of pieces. Differential calculus is the opposite of integral calculus. It was developed in the 1670s and 1680s by Sir Isaac Newton and Gottfried Leibniz.

Unlike a number such as 5 or 200, a variable can change its value. For example, distance and time are variables. At an Olympic running race, as the person runs, their "distance" from the starting line goes up. Meanwhile, a stopwatch or clock measures the "time" as it goes up. We can measure the average speed of the runner if we divide the distance they travelled by the time it took. But this does not say what speed the person was running at exactly 1.5 seconds into the race. If we had the distance at 1 second and the distance at 2 seconds, we would still only have an average, although it would probably be more correct than the average for the whole race.

Until calculus was invented, the only way to work this out was to cut the time into smaller and smaller pieces, so the average speed over the smaller time would get closer and closer to the actual speed at exactly 1.5 seconds. This was a very long and hard process and had to be done each time people wanted to work something out. Imagine a driver trying to figure out a car's speed using only its odometer (distance meter) and clock, without a speedometer!
A very similar problem is to find the slope (how steep it is) at any point on a curve. The slope of a "straight" line is easy to work out—it is simply how much it goes up ("y" or vertical) divided by how much it goes across ("x" or horizontal). If a line is parallel to the "x" axis, then its slope is zero. If a straight line went through (x,y) = (2,10) and (4,18), the line goes up 8 and goes across 2, so its slope is 8 divide 2, which is 4.

On a 'curve', though, the slope is a variable (has different values at different points) because the line bends. But if the curve was to be cut into very, very small pieces, the curve at the point would look almost like a very short straight line. So to work out its slope, a straight line can be drawn through the point with the same slope as the curve at that point. If it is done exactly right, the straight line will have the same slope as the curve, and is called a tangent. But there is no way to know (without calculus) whether the tangent is exactly right, and our eyes are not accurate enough to be certain whether it is exact or simply very close.

What Newton and Leibniz found was a way to work out the slope (or the speed in the distance example) exactly using simple and logical rules. They divided the curve into an infinite number of very small pieces. They then chose points on either side of the point they were interested in and worked out tangents at each. As the points moved closer together towards the point they were interested in, the slope "approached" a particular value as the tangents approached the real slope of the curve. They said that this particular value it approached was the actual slope.

Let's say we have a function "y" = f("x"). f is short for function, so this equation means "y is a function of x". This tells us that how high y is on the vertical axis depends on what x (the horizontal axis) is at that time. For example with the equation "y" = "x"², we know that if "x" is 1, then "y" will be 1; if "x" is 3, then "y" will be 9; if "x" is 20, then "y" will be 400.

Choose a point A on the curve, and call its horizontal position "x". Then choose another point B on the curve which is a little bit farther across than A, and call its horizontal position "x + h". It does not matter how much "h" is, it is a very small number.

So when we go from point A to point B, the vertical position has gone from f("x") to f("x + h"), and the horizontal position has gone from "x" to "x + h". Now remember that the slope is how much it goes up divided by how much it goes across. So the slope will be:

formula_1

If you bring B closer and closer to A—which means "h" gets closer and closer to 0—then we get closer to knowing what the slope is "at" the point A.

formula_2

Now let's go back to "y" = "x"². The slope of this can be determined as follows:

formula_3

formula_4

Applying the binomial theorem which states formula_5 we can reduce to:

formula_6

formula_7

formula_8

formula_9

So we know without having to draw any tangent lines that at any point on the curve "f(x)" = "x"², the derivative "f'(x)" (marked with an apostrophe) will be 2"x" at any point. This process of working out a slope using limits is called differentiation, or finding the derivative.

Leibniz came to the same result, but called h "dx", which means "a tiny amount of x". He called the resulting change in f(x) "dy", which means "a tiny amount of y". Leibniz's notation is used by more books because it is easy to understand when the equations become more complicated. In Leibniz notation:

formula_10

Using the above system, mathematicians have worked out rules which work all the time, no matter which function is being looked at.


</doc>
<doc id="14955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14955" title="Category:1815 births">
Category:1815 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1815.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14972" title="Socialist country">
Socialist country

A Socialist country is a country where the government or the public as a whole has control over the economy. In a socialist country, the producing and dispersing of goods is owned by the government. Socialism is placed in between capitalism and communism. 


</doc>
<doc id="14973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14973" title="Hamster">
Hamster

A hamster is a small furry animal (a rodent) that is a bit like a mouse or a ferret. Wild hamsters live in the desert, but people all over the world keep domesticated hamsters as pets. There are four main types of hamsters: the Syrian hamster (the kind most people have as pets), the Russian dwarf hamster, the Chinese hamster, and the Roborovski hamster. All Syrian hamsters are the descendants of 12 baby hamsters found in Syria in 1930. 

Pet hamsters like to live in cages with wood shavings, recycled newspaper, straw on the bottom, and eat mostly hamster food sold at a pet store, but they also eat almost any vegetables and fruits in very tiny portions. Hamsters store food in the sides of their mouths. They cannot eat oranges, lemons, watermelons, grapes, candy, or garlic. They need a water bottle with fresh water to drink from, and something to chew on to trim their teeth, because they grow constantly. If they do not like chewing you will have to cut their top teeth. Wooden blocks and some hard foods (they do not do a better job than an chewing block) can be used for this. Toilet paper rolls and pieces of cardboard are not advised, as the hamster may choke or try to eat it. Most hamsters also have a wheel to run on for exercise, although some people get other kinds of exercise equipment for their hamsters, like an empty ball that the hamster can roll around the floor or a long network of tubes with air holes for it to crawl through. When using the hamster ball, let the hamster roll in it for 10 to 15 min, for they might over tire and die. They should live in an aquarium or cage meant for hamsters. You should not use a mouse case because hamsters can squeeze through many small spaces. When letting your hamster out always keep an eye on it. Hamsters may look slow, but are truly very fast. Keep your hamster away from any electric wires, since they like to chew on them. Hamster are not recommended for young children.


</doc>
<doc id="14976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14976" title="Ed Gein">
Ed Gein

Edward Theodore "Ed" Gein (1906 - July 26, 1984) was an American serial killer. While Gein was found guilty of only two murders, the actual number is not known. Gein is considered by many to be even more well known because of several movies that were based in part on him. He was also known as The Butcher of Plainfield, The Plainfield Butcher, The Mad Butcher and The Plainfield Ghoul.

Ed Gein and his brother Henry were raised by their mother on their 160-acre farm near Plainfield, Wisconsin. She was a very religious woman and was very protective about her boys. She kept them away from women and busy with farm work.

His alcoholic father died in 1940. A few years later his brother Henry died in 1944, officially while fighting a grass fire (though there was evidence he was murdered by Ed). Soon after that, his mother had her first stroke. In 1945 she had her second stroke and died. Ed was left alone.

Gein then closed off the upstairs and the parlour of the house as well as his mother’s bedroom. He lived in the one other bedroom, kitchen and shed of the large house. He stopped working the farm because a government program paid him a subsidy. He also made money by doing small jobs for people in the area.

Ed read books on human anatomy and Nazi concentration camp experiments. He was very interested in it all, especially the female anatomy. He thought about sex often. One day he saw a newspaper article of a woman who had been buried that day.

He asked an old friend named Gus to help him. Gus was very strange too. Gus agreed to help Gein open a grave to get a corpse. Gein told him it was for ‘medical experiments’. The first corpse came from a grave very near the grave of Gein’s mother.

Gein continued to do this for the next ten years. He would check the newspaper often for fresh bodies. He always went to the graveyard at the time of a full moon. Gein would take the whole female corpse or just the parts he wanted, put the dirt back in the grave and take home what he took from the grave.

Gein did many strange things with the dead bodies. He would build objects from the bones and skin. The organs would be put into the refrigerator to eat later. It was claimed that he also had sex with the bodies ("necrophilia"), a charge he denied because they "smelled too bad". He even dug up his own mothers corpse.

Gein did not tell Gus that he wanted to become a woman himself. This was the reason he had studied anatomy. He thought about the of an operation which would change his sex. He wanted to study a female corpse and learn more about its anatomy. The closest he would get to changing his sex was dressing up in his full woman bodysuit. This bodysuit was made entirely of human skin. It completely covered his body and included a mask and breasts.

Later, Gus was taken away to an asylum, and Gein was all alone again. Gein thought that fresher bodies would be better for his collection, and turned to murder.

Ed Gein’s first victim was Mary Hogan, a 51-year-old divorcee and the owner of a local tavern in Pine Grove, six miles from his home. On the afternoon of December 8, 1954, he shot her in the head with his 32-caliber revolver. He put her body in his pickup truck and took her back to his shed.

A customer who dropped into the tavern found the place deserted, and a large bloodstain on the floor. A spent .32 cartridge lay near it. Bloodstains ran out the back door and into the parking lot, where they halted beside tire tracks that looked like those of a pickup truck. It looked as if Mary Hogan had been shot and taken away.

Police were not able to learn anything about what happened to her. A few weeks later, a sawmill owner named Elmo Ueeck talked to Gein about it. Gein replied, "She isn’t missing, she’s at the farm right now." Ueeck did not ask him what he meant by that.

There may have been other victims in the years that followed. Nothing is known for certain about Gein until November 16, 1957 when he shot & killed Bernice Worden in her store in Plainfield. He used a .22 rifle from a rack in the store and his own bullet which he carried with him. He then locked the store and took the body home in the store’s truck. Gein also took the cash register. He later explained that he did not take it to commit robbery. He wanted to see how it worked and planned to return it later.

Bernice Worden’s son, Frank, often worked with her in the store. That morning he had gone deer hunting. When he got back, he saw that the store was closed with the lights still on and his mother was missing. He also saw that the cash register was gone and there was blood on the floor.

Frank Worden talked to the sheriff, Art Schley and told him what he has seen. He checked the record of sales made that morning. One of them was for half a gallon of antifreeze. Worden remembered that Ed Gein had stopped by the night before at closing time. He had said that he would be back the next morning for antifreeze. Ed had also asked Worden if he was going hunting the next day.

With the cash register missing, he thought that Gein had planned a robbery once he learned Frank would not be there. Worden told this to the sheriff. The sheriff and captain Lloyd Schoephoester went to the farm, seven miles outside Plainfield.

The house was dark and Ed Gein was not there when the police arrived. They drove to a store where Gein usually bought groceries where they found Gein, who was just about to leave in his truck.

The sheriff stopped him and asked him to get into the police car for questioning. Sheriff Schley had not said anything about Bernice Worden’s death before Gein said that he thought someone had tried to frame him for the death, at which point Schley arrested Gein. 
Sheriff Schley & Captain Schoephoester went back to Gein's house with other officers. The doors to the house were locked, but the door to the shed behind the house was not. Inside they found a naked corpse of a woman hanging upside down from a crossbeam. The legs were spread wide apart and there was a long cut from the genitals almost to the throat. The throat and head were missing. The genitals and the anus were also missing. Bernice Worden had been cut open & dressed out like a deer.

There was no electricity in the dark house. They had to search it with oil lamps, lanterns, and flashlights. The place looked like it had not been clean in years. The few rooms that were not nailed shut were full of books, old papers, magazines, utensils, tin cans, cartons and other junk.

In the house they found

The bodies of 15 different women had been used to create Gein’s trophies. It is also said that sometimes Gein brought gifts of fresh venison to his neighbours but Gein said he had never shot a deer in his life.

Gein was sent to the Central State Hospital for the Criminally insane. He was proven insane. The doctors thought that he loved his mother but he hated her, so that is why he killed older women. It is said that Mary Hogan looked similar to his mother.

Gein said he was not a cannibal or necrophiliac. He did admit to grave robbing.

Many people became interested because of the true nature of the crime. Thousands of people drove to Plainfield to look at the 'murder farm'. Eventually the place was burned down by the Plainfield citizens as they felt it as a place of evil.

At Christmas, 1957, Gein was judged insane. He was committed to Waupan State Hospital for the rest of his life. Gein died of cancer on July 26, 1984, at the age of 78. He was buried in Plainfield next to the graves of his family.

Because of the true nature of Gein's crimes, Hollywood had a lot of ideas to work on.

The movie "Psycho" was based on the Robert Bloch book and made into a Hitchcock movie. Bloch got most of the ideas for "Psycho" from Ed Gein's life. With the overpowering mother and horror of the movie, it was one of the first of a kind.
"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" was based in some parts on Ed Gein. The story is about a group of teens who go to a horror house. The people that live in the house are a family of strange homicidal cannibals who also like grave robbing and building furniture made of bones and skulls. The lead bad guy is called ‘Leatherface’. Leatherface likes chasing teens around with his chainsaw and wearing a mask made from the faces of his victims.

The Academy Award winning movie "The Silence of the Lambs" also uses part of Geins life. It is about an FBI agent who is tracking down a serial killer. To find him she must get the help of an intelligent cannibal, Dr. Hannibal Lector. The serial killer she is trying to catch is called ‘Buffalo Bill’. He likes to kill women and make clothes of their skin. He also wants to be a woman and made a skin costume like that of Gein.


</doc>
<doc id="14981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14981" title="Easter">
Easter

Easter, also called Resurrection Day, is a holiday. Among Christians, it is a celebration of Jesus Christ returning from the dead. Christians believe that it is the holiest day in the year. People who are not Christians celebrate it as the beginning of Spring.

Easter is not held on the same date every year. Currently all Christian churches agree on how the date is calculated. Easter is celebrated on the first Sunday, following the first full moon, after the Spring Equinox. This means it is celebrated in March or April. Western churches, like the Roman Catholic Church, use the Gregorian calendar, while Eastern churches, like the Eastern Orthodox Church, use the Julian calendar. Because of this the date of Easter celebrations is different for these two types of churches even though the way they calculate the date is the same.

Some Christians do not use the word "Easter", because it comes from "Eastre" (ancient German), the Goddess of Spring, in paganism. The French word for Easter, "Pâcques", comes from the Greek word for Passover, which is the Jewish holiday celebrated at the same time of the year.

Christians believe that Jesus was killed on the cross about 2000 years ago by the Romans in a city called Jerusalem (most of Jerusalem is in the modern country of Israel). The people who killed him did so because they believed that he was causing trouble for the government, and because he was claiming to be the Messiah. When they crucified him (meaning they nailed him to a cross), they even hung a sign over his head, which said, "King of the Jews." The day he was crucified is known by Christians as Good Friday.

Christians believe that on the Sunday after Jesus was killed, some of his followers found that his body was no longer in the tomb where he was laid. Later, Jesus is said to have appeared to over 500 people and preached to them. The New Testament teaches that the resurrection of Jesus is what Christianity is based on. The resurrection made people believe that Jesus was the powerful Son of God. It is also spoken of as proof that God will judge the world fairly. Christians believe that God has given Christians "a new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead". Christians believe that through faith in God they are spiritually made alive with Jesus so that they may lead a new life.

Today, people celebrate Easter in a number of different ways: they give each other or hide to have children find, colourful Easter eggs; they also give each others candy. Sometimes they even give each other baby ducks, chickens, or bunnies as presents, though this is not done as much as it used to be. These ways of celebrating have nothing to do with Christianity. They come from the spring celebrations from old European nature religions. Christians, and even some people who are not Christians, dress very nicely and go to church on Easter Sunday. Large dinners are usually held on Easter afternoon as well. A ham is often at the center of this dinner, and hot cross buns are sometimes served.



</doc>
<doc id="14984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14984" title="Agnosticism">
Agnosticism

Agnosticism is the philosophical view that it is unknown (or even, unknowable) whether any deities (god or gods) exist or not. Some people who call themselves "agnostic" say that it is not possible for anyone ever to know if there are any deities or not. Other agnostics, though, say only that they themselves currently do not know if there are any deities.

There are several different kinds of agnosticism:

People often have difficulty telling agnosticism and atheism apart. Atheists do not have a belief in the existence of deities, and some claim to be quite sure that no deity exists. Some (perhaps most) atheists, though, state that it is up to theists or those who believe in a deity to give the evidence for a god or to show why someone should believe in a god. They state that there is neither enough evidence nor a strong enough argument to believe any gods exist, and so they reject belief that any exist. While agnostics think we cannot "know for sure" whether any deities exist, some agnostics do "believe" at least one deity exists. These people are both agnostic and theistic--they believe at least one deity exists, but do not claim to know that to be true. Some people are both atheist and agnostic--they reject belief in any deities without claiming to know that deities do not exist. Some agnostics just cannot themselves decide whether to believe any deities exist or not.




</doc>
<doc id="14985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14985" title="Universal Media Disc">
Universal Media Disc

"UMD can also mean University of Maryland."
The Universal Media Disc (UMD) is an optical disc made by Sony for their PlayStation Portable handheld console. It can hold up to 900 megabytes (single layer) or 1.8 gigabytes (double layer) of data. The disc can store games, music and video along with updates for the PSP. It is the first optical disc format to be used for a handheld video game system. To prevent illegal copying, Sony has not made blank discs available for sale. This disc is not used with any other devices. The UMD is very fragile and can be broken from misuse.

The primary use for UMD discs is for a storage medium for PSP games, but the format is also used for the storage of movies.
Although with the release of the PSP Go, most new games continue to be made via UMD, and, aside from those published by SCE, not all have been released on the PSN.


</doc>
<doc id="14986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14986" title="Georgia (country)">
Georgia (country)

"For the US State, please see Georgia (U.S. State)"

Georgia is a country in the Caucasus on the edge of the Black Sea. During 1991-1995 its full name was the Republic of Georgia but since 1995 it is Georgia as written in the Constitution. It used to be part of the Soviet Union, but now it is an independent republic.

Georgia is next to the countries of Russia, Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan. It also has a coast on the Black Sea. It lies at the edge of Europe and Asia.

Georgia has many mountains. Its highest point is 5,048 m above sea level. The mountains running through Georgia are called the Caucasus Mountains.

The capital of Georgia is called Tbilisi.

The population of Georgia is about 4.5 million. About 1.3 million of these live in Tbilisi. People from Georgia are called Georgians. Most of them speak Georgian as their first language, though some people also speak Armenian, Russian or other languages. The most famous person to have come from Georgia is Josef Stalin.

Most Georgians are Christians, but there are some Muslims and Jews as well.

The currency of Georgia is called the "lari".

The Georgians are an ancient people. Their Capital Tbilisi was founded around AD 400, after the end of the Roman Empire . Western Georgia was part of the Roman empire before then. The Arabs captured it in 635 AD. The culture continued and they flourished through trade.
In the 900s Arabs were weaker and the Georgians became their own country again. It was the major country in the region until the Mongols invaded in 1223. Georgia was part of the Mongolian empire for a century on and off until 1334, when King Giorgi V took over.
In the 1500s the Persians invaded Georgia four times from 1541-1544. In 1555 the Kings of Kartli ruled through the will of the will of the Persian shahs.
In 1783 The treaty of Georgievsk was signed between Catherine the Great of Russia and King Herekle, giving Russia the power to protect Georgia. Then, in 1798 the Persians burned Tbilisi to the ground.
From 1811 to 1918 Georgia was under the Tsar of Russia. Their culture survived intact. From 1918 to 1921 Georgia was independent, and then was part of the Soviet Union.
In 1991 Georgia declared their independence and they have been their own country ever since. There was a rough patch between 1994 and 1995 when the economy was poor, but now Georgia is a country with close ties with the United States. They are currently applying to NATO.

Major statue of dicator joseph stalin removed for good on june 25 2010! 


</doc>
<doc id="14989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14989" title="First-person shooter">
First-person shooter

A first-person shooter is a computer or video game where the player sees the level from the eyes of the character being played.

These games are also called FPS for short.
Lots of them are violent and about killing other game characters. Because they are from the view of the character, a player can only see his or her hands and weapon.

Usual signs that a game is an FPS is that the player can see:
 -- --

Some FPSs are for example:


</doc>
<doc id="14991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14991" title="Category:212 BC deaths">
Category:212 BC deaths

This category has articles on people who died in the year 212 BC.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="14992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14992" title="Category:287 BC births">
Category:287 BC births


</doc>
<doc id="14996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14996" title="Random access memory">
Random access memory

Random access memory (or simply RAM) is the memory or information storage in a computer that is used to store running programs and data for the programs. Data (information) in the RAM can be read and written quickly in any order. Normally, the random access memory is in the form of computer chips. Usually, the contents of RAM are accessible faster than other types of information storage but are lost every time the computer is turned off.

There are several types of RAM used in modern computers. Prior to 2002, most computers used single data rate (SDR) RAM. Most computers made since use either double data rate (DDR), DDR2, or DDR3 RAM. DDR2 allows stored data to be moved and used more quickly than DDR, so that the computer's processor can keep working quickly without having to wait for data as long or as often, and DDR3 technology works even faster.

Different kinds of RAM usually will not work together in the same computer. Most computers can only use one kind of RAM. Some can use a small number of different kinds. Different kinds of RAM often have differently shaped connectors. This limits which RAM chips a particular computer model can use.

Information that the computer always needs, that does not often change, is normally kept in read-only memory (ROM), which does not lose its contents when the computer is turned off. Such items include the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System), which stores the most basic commands for the computer, telling it how it should start up. The BIOS also tells the computer how to input and output information. The BIOS can be compared to the part of your brain that tells your heart how to beat. This is an important part.


</doc>
<doc id="14998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14998" title="Read-only memory">
Read-only memory

Read-only memory (or simple ROM) is a type of computer memory. Unlike RAM, it keeps its contents even when the computer or device is turned off. Usually, ROM cannot be written to when the computer runs normally. ROM is used for important programs like the BIOS which tells the computer how to start, or the firmware of certain devices, which usually does not need to be modified. Usually, ROM comes on computer chips.

There are different kinds of ROMs:


</doc>
<doc id="15002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15002" title="Integrated circuit">
Integrated circuit

An integrated circuit (more often called an IC, microchip, silicon chip, computer chip, or chip) is a piece of specially prepared silicon (or another semiconductor) into which a very complex electronic circuit is etched using photographic technique. Silicon chips can contain computer processors, memory and special devices. The chip is very fragile and so is normally surrounded by a tough plastic package, and electrical contact with the chip are provided through metal legs sticking out of the package.
There are two main advantages of ICs over discrete circuits: cost and performance. Cost is low because the ICs are printed as a complete unit by photolithography and not constructed as one transistor at a time. Performance is higher since the components switch quickly, consuming little power.
ICs work as they are designed. Let's suppose that you designed a chip as a calculator, which only works as a calculator.

An integrated circuit was independently co-invented by Jack Kilby and Robert Noyce around the same time in late 1950's.

※The difference between VLSI and ULSI is obscure.

Integrated circuits can be classified into DIP(Dual in-line package), PLCC(Plastic leaded chip carrier), TSOP(Thin small-outline package), PQFP(Plastic Quad Flat Pack) and etc by chip package type.

Microprocessor


</doc>
<doc id="15004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15004" title="Moss">
Moss

Mosses are Bryophytes, which are non-vascular plants. They apparently evolved from liverworts: evidence from mitochondrial DNA suggests that this is the stem group from which mosses, hornworts and all higher plants evolved. 

Mosses do not have cells that move water like other plants- water must soak into them, like a sponge. A patch of moss is made of many tiny moss plants packed together so that they can hold water for as long as possible. They do not have roots, and could not get water from them if they did. Because they cannot find water, they live in two ways. They can live in places that are always wet; like near a spring, a river, or in a place where there is a lot of fog. They can also dry up when there is no water. This means that they can never live in dry places. 

They cannot grow very large because they could not move water to the top of the moss. The largest moss grows in New Zealand, and is about 30 cm tall. 

A moss does not make seeds. A moss does not have fruit. The green fuzzy part of a moss that is always there has only half of the moss DNA. When the moss has made lots of food and there is enough water, cells from different moss plants swim inside a clump of moss. Two cells combine to make a cell with a full set of moss DNA. This cell grows into a different kind of moss plant- but it gets all of its food from a green fuzzy moss plant. When the cell grows, it makes tiny spores instead of seeds. The spores are like dust. They come from a little box that grows up out of the moss. The box has a lid that falls off. Then the spores come out and float away. They will make more moss.

Scientists divide the mosses into eight groups. Five of these groups are small, with just a few species; most mosses are in the group called Bryopsida.


</doc>
<doc id="15006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15006" title="Function (mathematics)">
Function (mathematics)

In mathematics, a function is the idea that one quantity (called the "input") completely determines another quantity, often called the output. Modern mathematics defines functions using sets. A function can then be seen as a rule. With this rule, each element of the set of inputs will be assigned one element of the set of outputs. Even though the underlying structures are sets, mathematicians talk about domain and codomain of a function. Each element of the domain will be associated with one element of the codomain.

An example of an elementary function that acts on the real numbers as both the domain and the codomain could be "f"("x") = 2"x". Every real number will be assigned a real number that is twice as big. In this case, "f(5) = 10".

Mathematics knows other objects than numbers. While elementary functions may act on numbers, functions can also be maps. They may act on algebraic structures like groups, or geometric ones such as manifolds. A function that acts on the sets {A,B,C} and {1,2,3} and that associates A with 1, B with 2, and C with 3 is an example of a non-elementary function.

It is sometimes said that formula_1 is the "image" of formula_2, and formula_2 is the "pre-image" of formula_1. Also, it is said that the object formula_2 is "transformed" or "mapped" into formula_1. A function is another way of representing y in formulae like y = x+2, which would be f(x) = x+2

The first to talk about "functions" was Leibnitz in 1694. At first, a function was seen as a rule of changing a number into a different one. Examples of such functions are formula_7 or formula_8. Sometimes it was allowed that a function had more than one result value. An example of such a function is the square root. 

This was used in schools until the second half of the 20th century. In the 19th century, Weierstraß, Dedekind and others worked on the theory of limits. When they did they discovered that the limit of infinite sequences are sometimes not continuous and that they can sometimes not be expressed as a closed formula, with a finite number of rules. This meant that the concept of function had to be extended.

Here is an example of how functions work:
formula_9 is a formula for a function. The person is doing something to formula_2 that will make it a different number. In this example, the person is adding 1 to the unknown number formula_2. If he sets x = 4, the function becomes formula_12. This means that formula_13 when formula_2 equals 4. 

Many functions are more complex than this example but the pattern is always the same. For every input, formula_2, the person gets a result, formula_1.

When people write functions, they often write f(x) but the f can also be written with any letter in the alphabet and sometimes with greek letters. This can look confusing but just means they are different to another function in the same working out or formulae or can mean that they are special functions like the Riemann-Zeta function which is spelt as ζ(s). Moreover, g(x) is often used for the first reason but not always.

There are other functions. In mathematical language, a function can be defined as a map from a non-empty set (called a "domain") to a non-empty set (called a "codomain") such that for every element in the domain there is a single corresponding element in the codomain.

Inverse functions are where the action of a normal function are reversed. The symbol for this is is f(x). For example think of f(x)=x, this reversed is f(x)=√x.


</doc>
<doc id="15007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15007" title="Category:1390s births">
Category:1390s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1390s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="15008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15008" title="Category:1468 deaths">
Category:1468 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15009" title="Category:1468">
Category:1468

Articles and events that is related to the year 1468.


</doc>
<doc id="15010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15010" title="Category:1460s deaths">
Category:1460s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1460s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="15017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15017" title="Miami, Florida">
Miami, Florida

Miami is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is a known tourist stop and it is well known for its Cuban, Puerto Rican and Haitian culture. Miami is the county seat (and largest city) of Miami-Dade County. Doral, Florida is one of its suburbs.

Miami-Dade County Public Schools is the school district for public schools in Miami. There are also some private schools there. There are many colleges and universities in and around Miami. A few of these include Florida International University, the University of Miami, and Miami Dade College.

There are several professional sports teams that play in and around Miami, including Major League Baseball's Florida Marlins, the National Basketball Association's Miami Heat, the National Hockey League's Florida Panthers, and the National Football League's Miami Dolphins.



</doc>
<doc id="15018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15018" title="Grunge music">
Grunge music

Grunge music or Seattle sound (as it is called sometimes) is a style of rock music that has elements of punk rock and heavy metal. It started in the early 1980s in the Pacific Northwest of the United States, especially in the states of Washington and Oregon. It became more popular in the early 1990s. Grunge songs often had lyrics with nihilism, depression, unhappiness, or apathy as themes. The widespread use of heroin as a recreational drug found its way into the lyrics and careers of numerous grunge rockers, notably Kurt Cobain and Layne Staley of "Alice in Chains". 

The songs often had light (or clean) guitar sounds in the verses, and the high energy boost of distorted (or dirty) guitars in the choruses. The line-up for these bands was the typical rock band of guitars, bass, drums and vocal.

Although grunge as a movement became less popular by the last 1990s, its influence is still heard in many bands today.

Some well known grunge artists were:



</doc>
<doc id="15019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15019" title="Carly Simon">
Carly Simon

Carly Simon (June 25,1945-) is an American singer and songwriter. She has a song called "Let the River Run"


</doc>
<doc id="15020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15020" title="Toto">
Toto

Toto is a soft rock group that formed in Los Angeles in 1978, that was popular in the early 1980's.

The band members are Bobby Kimball, Steve Lukather, David Paich, Greg Phillinganes, Simon Phillips and Mike Porcaro.

The former band members were Fergie Frederiksen, David Hungate, Jeff Porcaro, Steve Porcaro and Joseph Williams.


</doc>
<doc id="15030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15030" title="Jim Jones">
Jim Jones

James Warren "Jim" Jones (May 13, 1931 – November 18, 1978) was an American preacher and religious leader. His church was called the "People's Temple". It began as a Christian church (a member church of the Disciples of Christ), but over time became a cult. Jones and most of the members of his group committed suicide on November 18, 1978 in Guyana.


</doc>
<doc id="15031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15031" title="Saludemos la Patria orgullosos">
Saludemos la Patria orgullosos

"Saludemos la Patria orgullosos" ("Salute the Motherland Proudly") is the national anthem of El Salvador.



</doc>
<doc id="15032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15032" title="Eritrea">
Eritrea

Eritrea is a country in east Africa. Its official name is The State of Eritrea.

Eritrea has borders with the countries of Sudan, Ethiopia, and Djibouti. It also has a coast on the Red Sea. The land area of Eritrea is 101,000 km², and it is one of the smallest countries in Africa.

The capital of Eritrea is Asmara.

The population of Eritrea is about 5.6 million. About 0.5 million people live in Asmara. People from Eritrea are called Eritreans. Most of them speak "Tigrinya" or "Tigre" as their first language. The people usually use Tigrinya or Arabic for official business.

The currency of Eritrea is called the Nakfa. Eritrea is a very poor country. Almost half of Eritrea's economy comes from Eritreans who live abroad. They send money home to their families. Most of the rest comes from farming.

Eritrea became an independent country on 24 May 1993. It is one of the newest countries in the world.

Many different countries have ruled the land that is now called Eritrea. Between 1885 and 1941 it was a colony of Italy. Between 1941 and 1952, the United Nations put it under the protection of United Kingdom. After 1952, Eritrea became a part of Ethiopia. This was the reason for a long civil war between the Eritreans and the government of Ethiopia.

Eventually, in 1993, Eritrea became an independent country after a vote by its people.

<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="15033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15033" title="Sanford Dole">
Sanford Dole

Sanford Dole (April 23, 1844 – June 9, 1926) was an American politician. Dole was a part of a group of businessmen who first forced a new Hawaiian national constitution on the country during King David Kalakaua's reign and then after his death removed Queen Liliuokalani from the throne and took control of the country in 1893. They removed the queen by threatening to use the warships of the U.S. Navy had in Honolulu harbor. 

Queen Liliuokalani did not want her people to be harmed so she agreed to do what the revolutionists wanted. The Queen went to Washington and talked to the American President, Grover Cleveland. Cleveland decided that this had been an act of war against the Hawaiian Kingdom. Cleveland ordered Sanford Dole, the President of the newly formed republic, to make Liliuokalani the queen again. 

Dole refused to do this. He said that President Cleveland was interfering. Dole remained the president of Hawaii from 1894 until 1900 after Cleveland was elected out of office. The newly elected American president William McKinley signed the Newsland Resolution. The Newsland Resolution made Hawaii a territory of the United States. This ended any legal or military chance of restoring the Queen and the Hawaiian Kingdom.

Dole served as governor of Hawaii from 1900 until 1903 when he accepted a position as United States District Court judge. He remained a judge until 1915. 


</doc>
<doc id="15034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15034" title="Ancient Egypt">
Ancient Egypt

Ancient Egypt, or the Egyptian Empire, was a society that began about 3,500 BC and lasted until 20 BC when it was invaded by the Roman Empire. 

It grew along the River Nile and was at its most powerful in the second millennium BC. At one time it went all the way from the Nile delta to Nubia, a kingdom which today is mostly in the Sudan.

For most of its history, Egypt was prosperous, since the water from the Nile made sure that the Egyptians would have good crops. 

The Egyptians created a way of writing using hieroglyphs, built huge temples and tombs, trading with other areas, and had a powerful army. Their religion had many gods, and its priests were a powerful and wealthy group. Their rulers, called Pharaohs, were thought to be close to the gods.

Archaeologists, or people who dig in the earth to find ancient objects, have found that people have lived along the Nile for a very long time. The fertile flood plains of the Nile allowed people to begin farming. By the 10th millennium BC, the people in Egypt had begun growing cereal grains like wheat and barley and because they were farming, they stayed in one place. because they were settled, society became more complex and involved. This was an important step in the history of human civilization.

This period in Egyptian history is called "predynastic", as it happened before the large kingdoms were formed.
By about 5500 BC, small tribes living in the Nile valley had developed into a series of cultures. Each had begun farming both crops and animals. They had their own types of pottery and personal items, such as combs, bracelets, and beads. In upper Egypt, the north part of the country, the Badari was one of the biggest groups. It was known for its high quality pottery, stone tools, and its use of copper. They were followed by the Amratian and Gerzian cultures. They had improved tools and other new ideas. In Gerzian times, the people were making contact with Palestine and the Byblos coast (now Lebanon).

The different periods are of ancient Egyptian history are:

The Intermediate periods included times when the traditional system broke down, the country was split, or invaded by foreign rulers. Egypt's culture and climate was relatively stable, compared to other parts of the Middle East. Nevertheless, they had some periods when their government was challenged and sometimes overthrown.

Ancient Egypt was split up into many different districts called "sepats". The first divisions were created during the Predynastic Period, but then, they were small city-states that ruled themselves. When the first pharaoh came to power, the sepats remained and were much like the counties in today's England. They stayed basically the same for a long time – there were 42 of them, and each was ruled by a governor called a nomarch. This person was put in power by the pharaoh.

Ancient Egypt had a lot of different taxes, but there was no real money, so people paid each other with goods or work. The person who watched the tax collection was called the "scribe", and every tax collector in Egypt had to tell him every day how many taxes they had collected. Each person paid different taxes based on the work that they did: craftsmen paid in goods, hunters and fishermen paid with food, and every single household in the country had to pay a labour tax every year by helping with work for the country like mining or for canals. A lot of rich Egyptians paid poorer people to do this for them.

The language can be divided into six time periods:

Egypt had writing called hieroglyphics, which is one of the two oldest written languages (the other is Sumerian cuneiform). 
Hieroglyphic writing dates to c. 3200 BC, and is composed of some 500 symbols. A hieroglyph can represent a word, a sound, or a silent determinative (which makes clear what the sign means). The same symbol can serve different purposes in different contexts. Hieroglyphs were for public purposes, used on stone monuments and in tombs. It was art, and often it was political propaganda. 

Hieroglyphs, like Japanese or Chinese characters, started out as ideographic characters, or writing made of pictures. This ancient writing has no vowels: all sounds in the writing are consonants. Of course, they used vowels when they spoke; we have to work out what they were.

The script used by priests for everyday writing on papyrus, wood or cloth.
In day-to-day writing, scribes used a cursive form of writing, called hieratic, which was quicker and easier. While formal hieroglyphs may be read in rows or columns in either direction (though typically written from right to left), hieratic was always written from right to left, usually in horizontal rows.

The script used by ordinary people. A new form of writing, Demotic, became the main writing style, and it is this form of writing — along with formal hieroglyphs — that accompany the Greek text on the Rosetta Stone.

The Coptic script is a modified Greek alphabet. The Coptic language is the last stage of the Egyptian language (modern Egyptians speak a dialect of Arabic).


Religion was very important to Ancient Egyptians. To Egyptians, all African animals were holy and were worshipped. Because of this, Egyptians domesticated, or made pets of, animals very early and took very good care of them. The centre of any Egyptian town was the temple, and this building was used for everything from the town hall to a university in addition to its religious services. 

Because they were so religious, Egyptians created a lot of art of their gods. This art shows all different kinds of divine, or holy, creatures including the pharaoh, who was thought to be a god. 

The afterlife was also very important to Egyptians and they are known for mummifying their dead. These mummies are important to scientists today because they tell them about how the Egyptians lived.

The rich fertile soil came from annual inundations of the Nile River. The ancient Egyptians were thus able to produce an abundance of food, allowing the population to devote more time and resources to cultural, technological, and artistic pursuits. In ancient Egypt taxes were assessed based on the amount of land a person owned.

Farming in Egypt was dependent on the cycle of the Nile River. The Egyptians recognized three seasons: "Akhet" (flooding), "Peret" (planting), and "Shemu" (harvesting). The flooding season lasted from June to September, depositing on the river's banks a layer of mineral-rich silt ideal for growing crops. After the floodwaters had receded, the "growing season" lasted from October to February. Farmers plowed and planted seeds in the fields, which were irrigated with ditches and canals. Egypt received little rainfall, so farmers relied on the Nile to water their crops. From March to May, farmers used sickles to harvest their crops, which were then threshed with a flail to separate the straw from the grain. Winnowing removed the chaff from the grain, and the grain was then ground into flour, brewed to make beer, or stored for later use.
Flax plants were grown for the fibers of their stems. These fibers were split along their length and spun into thread, which was used to weave sheets of linen and to make clothing. Papyrus growing on the banks of the Nile River was used to make paper. Vegetables and fruits were grown in garden plots, close to habitations and on higher ground, and had to be watered by hand. Vegetables included leeks, garlic, melons, squashes, pulses, lettuce, and other crops, in addition to grapes that were made into wine.

The Egyptians believed that a balanced relationship between people and animals was an essential element of the cosmic order; thus humans, animals and plants were believed to be members of a single whole. Cattle were the most important livestock; livestock were taxed; the size of a herd reflected the prestige and importance of the estate or temple which owned them. In addition to cattle, the ancient Egyptians kept sheep, goats, and pigs. Poultry such as ducks, geese, and pigeons were captured in nets and bred on farms, where they were force-fed with dough to fatten them. The Nile provided a plentiful source of fish. Bees were also domesticated from at least the Old Kingdom, and they provided both honey and wax.

The ancient Egyptians used donkeys and oxen as beasts of burden. They plowed the fields and trampled seed into the soil. The slaughter of a fattened ox was part of an offering ritual. Horses were introduced by the Hyksos in the Second Intermediate Period, and the camel, although known from the New Kingdom, was not used as a beast of burden until the Late Period. There is also evidence to suggest that elephants were briefly used in the Late Period, but largely abandoned due to lack of grazing land. Dogs, cats and monkeys were common family pets, while more exotic pets imported from the heart of Africa, such as lions, were reserved for royalty. Herodotus observed that the Egyptians were the only people to keep their animals with them in their houses. During the Predynastic and Late periods, the worship of the gods in their animal form was extremely popular, such as the cat goddess Bastet and the ibis god Thoth, and these animals were bred in large numbers on farms for the purpose of ritual sacrifice.

Ancient Egyptians had some advanced medical knowledge for their time. They performed surgery, set broken bones and even knew about medicines. Some medicines the Ancient Egyptians used are honey and breast milk or gazelle's milk. Not only did they have medicinal values, they also are believed to have been used to ward off evil spirits and demons. The easiest way to see how good they were at medicine is to look at the medical papyri which have survived to the present day. The Edwin Smith papyrus is the world's oldest surviving surgical document, from about 1600 B.C. The text describes anatomy, and the examination, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of 48 types of medical problems in detail.

Engineering was a very specialised art in Egypt. Engineers were able to survey, or find the area between two points, make very complicated structures called pyramids that were nearly perfect geometrically, create cement, and make large irrigation networks. There is even the belief that Ancient Egyptians created a kind of battery.

Science was also very important. Some believe that the beginning of the modern scientific method was in Egypt. Mathematics were also in use in Egypt, and the golden ratio was even used in the construction of the Pyramids.

Another famous ability of the Egyptians was glassmaking. Archaeologists have found many pieces of beads, jars, figures and ornaments in tombs across the nation. In 2005, there was even the discovery of an ancient glassmaking factory.






</doc>
<doc id="15035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15035" title="Alexander the Great">
Alexander the Great

Alexander the Great (July 20 or 26, 356 BC - June 10 323 BC) was an Ancient Greek king of the kingdom of Macedon. He was born in the city of Pella and his father was the king Philip II. He was taught most of his skills in Athens during his childhood. He was taught by a great teacher and world famous philosopher named Aristotle, and through his teachings he became the world's first great military commander. At the age of 20 he became the king of Macedonia, after his father had been assassinated by a former bodyguard. He wanted to rule a large empire called Persia. He is often listed as one of the greatest military commanders in history, along with Hannibal Barca, Ashoka the Great, Julius Caesar, Genghis Khan, Subutai, Napoleon I of France, and others. However, his men soon grew tired of traveling so far, and threatened to revolt. Around India, he finally agreed to turn back. By the time of his death he had conquered most of the Middle Eastern world known to Europeans, which included ancient Persia, Egypt, and Asia Minor. 

He died in Babylon in 323 BC of an unknown cause. Nobody knows the cause of Alexander's death. Some people have said his death was caused by poison in wine, murder or a fever after a battle. 


</doc>
<doc id="15037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15037" title="Brisbane">
Brisbane

Brisbane (local nickname "Brissie") is the capital of Queensland in the northeast of Australia. 

The Brisbane River flows through the city. 

1,730,000 people live there and there is both a Catholic and a Protestant Bishop. 

Brisbane was founded in 1824 and was meant at first for prisoners who were embarked to Australia. The name comes from a Governor of New South Wales, Sir Thomas Brisbane. 



</doc>
<doc id="15039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15039" title="Hawaiian language">
Hawaiian language

The Hawaiian language (Hawaiian: "ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi") is the language of native Hawaiians. "Aloha" and "Mahalo" are probably its most recognized words worldwide, though the word lanai has been absorbed into English (not to be confused with Lana'i, the name of a small Island in the chain). "Taboo" (Kapu in Hawaiian) is Tahitian from the same Proto-Polynesian root from which the Hawaiian language grew. 

Other Pacific islands whose languages come from this same root form what is called the "Polynesian Triangle" and include the Marquesas, Raratonga, Samoa, some islands of what is now Fiji and New Zealand.

Substantial "linguistic drift" has occurred among them (perhaps mostly between Hawai'i and the others; due to it being most geographically isolated north of the Equator) over the last two thousand years or so. Nonetheless, native speakers of all these languages can still make themselves understood to one another (think of a cockney talking to someone from South Central LA or the Bronx).

The language has only 12 letters (A, E, H, I, K, L, M, N, O, P, U, W); 13 if you count the 'okina (which is legitimate; it "drifted" from some "K" sounds in the early Polynesian tongue into a glottal stop; like the break in the middle of the word "Oh-oh". These days the 'okina is written as a backward apostrophe (small numeral 6 above and preceding a vowel).

The Ni'ihau dialect (residents of that island are the only people who still speak Hawaiian exclusively and their dialect is the most true to its roots) still uses some T, S, Rs and "hints" of B sounds but this is not common among other modern speakers.

Every Hawaiian syllable ends with a vowel. There are some who suppose that this trait is what lends the language its "Musicality". Some claim that final vowels helped the speakers memorize chanted traditional stories and genealogies (since prior to contact with European peoples, Polynesians had no written language). Most linguists, however, would reject this interpretation and note that this property of Hawaiian is a result of internal phonological processes.

There are two forms of each of the five vowels; regular (pronounced as a Spaniard would) and extended (in written form; by putting a horizontal bar called a kahako over the vowel). The meanings (and pronunciations) of words spelled the same but with or without the appropriate kahakos or 'okinas can be very different; sometimes creating embarrassment.

One might think that learning the language would be relatively easy ("heck, it only has 12 or i3 letters! How hard can it be?"), but that only applies to na keiki (children) who have never learned the 26 letters that English speakers use. There is a children's rhyme that goes on for a couple minutes (and written, probably a couple dozen lines) that consists of nothing but both versions of the letters a, i and the 'okina. It talks of him (ia) eating (ai) his (iaia) fish (i'a). 

When the missionaries first created a written form of Hawaiian Language, they did not write the kahakos or 'okinas; leaving it to the context to make the meanings evident. 

Since the intent was to translate the Bible ("Paipala"), natives forgave some of the confusions created, but nonetheless, latched onto the way that unintended "double entendres" could appear in written form as a source of humor. When later, Hawaiian language newspapers appeared, Native speaking writers and editors took care to avoid these (the type that was available to "set" did not include such "specialty" characters).

'Olelo Hawai'i is rich in metaphor much as the Navajo language (recall how US secret codes were based on it) which calls a submarine a "metal trout"; only perhaps more playful. Redundancy and double entendre are considered part of the richness of its heritage, these days.


</doc>
<doc id="15041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15041" title="Skinhead">
Skinhead

Skinheads, named after their short haircuts, are members of a subculture that originated in Britain in late 1960s, where they were closely tied to the Rude Boys and the Mods. They shave their heads, because originally most of them were workers in factories and they had to be bald, so their hair could not get caught in the machines. 

Traditional skinheads identify with the original skinhead movement ("The Spirit of '69") in music, style, and/or working class pride. Skinheads listen to ska, rocksteady, reggae, Oi! and punk music.

People who are not part of the group often see Skinheads as being politically close to the Neo-Nazi (or White Power) movement. Often Skinheads are seen as part of that movement. This is wrong, given that there are many young people in the movement who have no political views at all. Many Skinheads are also not violent, unless they are provoked.



</doc>
<doc id="15044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15044" title="Anime">
Anime

Anime is Japanese for "Animation", or cartoons. In some places, the term anime refers to Japanese Animation or Animation similar in style to Japanese Animation. But in Japan, anime means all animation in general. This article is about Japanese animation.

Some anime is drawn by hand, but anime can also be made with computers. There are many types of anime; you can find anime about sports, magic, or romance. These are just some examples. Anime is shown on television, on DVD and VHS, and is used in computer and video games. Also, some anime cartoons are just movies, but they have cartoon characters and animation instead of real people and places. Anime is often based on Japanese comics that are called manga and graphic novels. Sometimes live action (not animation) movies and television series are based on an anime. 

The history of anime begins around 1900, when Japanese filmmakers tried ways of animation that came from France, Germany, United States and Russia.

The filmmakers in Japan did not have a lot of money to make their movies and not a lot of places where they could film their movies. The people that the filmmakers could use as actors in their movies was also a problem for making Japanese movies. Japanese people look different from people in other places in the world, and it was hard for filmmakers to make a movie about places other than Japan with Japanese actors. Movie makers liked animation because then they could have animator draw other places and people that could not be filmed in a normal movie, and the animators could be very creative with the cartoons they made.

During the 1970s, more and more people started to like manga. At the same time, manga were used as the starting point to make anime with the same characters and stories. Animators would take the drawings done by a manga artist and the stories the manga artist wrote, and turn them into the stories and characters of a similar anime. At that time Osamu Tezuka became very popular. Now he is called a "legend" and the "god of manga". Tezuka and other pioneers of anime made a lot of types of stories and styles that are common to anime today. The giant robot genre (known as "mecha" outside Japan) began with manga and anime from Tezuka's ideas. Robot anime like Gundam and Macross became classics in the 1980s. Today, the robot genre is still very popular in Japan and worldwide. In the 1980s, anime became very popular in Japan, and saw an increase in production. (Manga is much more popular than anime in Japan). There are a lot of different kinds of anime that many different kinds of people like besides Mecha, and there are types of anime based on the age of the people who might like it or the subject of the anime.

Very popular stories in anime and manga are often translated into other languages, and the words used in the anime or manga will be put into another language where they mean the same thing. That way, people who live outside of Japan and who do not understand Japanese (the language used for dialogue in anime and manga in Japan) can also understand the stories. If a manga or anime is not translated by a company in another country, sometimes people in that country will translate the story to share with other people for free before a company translates it for the general public. This is good because it allows more people to watch animes, but some companies think it is stealing.



In the late 1980s, lots of people in countries other than Japan started to like anime too. In the United States, giant robot anime became popular. In Europe, anime for children became popular. Today, many different kinds of anime are popular all around the world. Anime helped spread in popularity thanks to the internet.



</doc>
<doc id="15047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15047" title="Sudan">
Sudan

Sudan is a country in Africa. The official name of Sudan is The Republic of Sudan. Its capital is Khartoum.

Sudan borders by Egypt to the north, the Red Sea to the northeast, Eritrea and Ethiopia to the east, South Sudan to the south, the Central African Republic to the southwest, Chad to the west, and Libya to the northwest.

Sudan used to have the largest area of all the countries in Africa. However, on July 9, 2011, the southern part of the country left and became a new country, South Sudan. Sudan now has an area of 1,861,484 sq km, and is the third largest country in Africa by area.
The Nile flows through Sudan, providing water to crops. There are many different tribal and ethnic groups of people, though the country is mainly divided between the north, which has more Arabic people, and the south, which has more people of African descent.

People from Sudan are called Sudanese. About 45 million people live in Sudan. About 4 million of these live in Khartoum or in towns that are joined to it.

Arabic is the official language of Sudan, but people also speak "Nubian", "Nilotic" and English. Many other languages are spoken in different parts of the country as well.

Most Sudanese people have Islam as their religion. A small number are Christian. Some people have other religions that are called tribal (local) beliefs.

The currency of Sudan is called the Sudanese Pound (Jinneh).

The leader of Sudan right now is President Omar Hassan al-Bashir.

For several years, the Darfur conflict has been going on in Sudan. Over 400,000 people have died in it.

<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="15048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15048" title="OpenBSD">
OpenBSD

OpenBSD is a secure, free computer operating system. It can run on many types of computers, including Intel PCs and Apple Computer's PowerPCs.

Like the other open source BSDs and unlike with most Linux operating systems, the whole operating system is developed by the same group of people with OpenBSD. Programmes from other sources are available separately.

OpenBSD is often the first to add new security tools to make it harder to break, developers have also carefully read through the programming code to check for mistakes more than once. The project is led by Theo de Raadt from Calgary, Alberta, Canada and is released under conditions which put few rerestrictions on people that use the source code, the BSD licence.

OpenBSD releases new versions every six months, each version is supported for one year after release. OpenBSD 4.4 was released November 1, 2008.

OpenBSD's first mascot was a BSD daemon with a halo, it was replaced with Puffy, a pufferfish, on June 15th, 2000, with the release of OpenBSD 2.7.

The operating system's developers add in many new technologies to make the system more secure, technologies like W^X, Stack Protection, malloc reconfigurations and ssh to replace telnet and rlogin.

Because it is so secure, OpenBSD is often used as a firewall and for other security-related jobs. It is also usable for on a desktop computer, it can act and look like one of several other operating systems like Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows, and others.




</doc>
<doc id="15049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15049" title="1170">
1170



</doc>
<doc id="15050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15050" title="1883">
1883





</doc>
<doc id="15051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15051" title="1638">
1638



</doc>
<doc id="15056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15056" title="1741">
1741



</doc>
<doc id="15059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15059" title="Civil war">
Civil war

A civil war is a war that takes place between different groups in one country. While civil wars can take place for lots of reasons, there are two reasons that are very common.

The first is because the different groups disagree about who should be in charge, or how the country should be run. If two political parties disagree about the result of an election, this might lead to a war if the two sides cannot or would not come to an agreement.

The second is because one group of people does not want to be part of the country anymore. This is known as a war of secession. Lots of people living in a certain area might decide that they want to break away, and make their own country. Very few national leaders would be happy to give up land that is part of that country, and a war could result.

Sometimes the people who want to break away do not necessarily want to form a whole new country, but they might want more control over their affairs. This happens sometimes when different ethnic groups belong to the same nation.

Civil wars are often just as destructive and damaging as normal wars between two different countries. Often they can linger on for a very long time. This is because civil wars tend to become complicated very quickly. A civil war might start between two sides, but groups might break up and the new, different sides could start fighting each other. Groups of people who were not involved at the beginning can easily be sucked in, as they start getting weapons to defend themselves against both sides. Civil wars with many different sides all fighting each other have occurred.

Nations that have had a civil war include:
Nations that are currently having civil wars include:


</doc>
<doc id="15060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15060" title="1175">
1175





</doc>
<doc id="15061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15061" title="Crocodile">
Crocodile

A crocodile is a large reptile that lives in water. They are considered to be living fossils. The name "Crocodile" can also sometimes be used for any member of the order "Crocodilia". 

The crocodile can snap its jaw shut very fast and has much power closing its jaw but crocodiles have very little strength opening their jaws and any regular man can most likely hold it shut with their bare hands.

Crocodiles range in size from African Dwarf crocodiles that measure rarely over 5 feet to saltwater crocodiles which can approach 23 feet.

Crocodiles live in rivers, lakes and dams in parts of America, Asia, Africa and Australia. Some of the crocodiles from Australia live in salt water. These saltwater crocodiles are normally bigger than the ones that live in fresh water. While crocodiles spend most of their time in water, they can come out and move around on the land. Crocodiles cannot breathe underwater: they breathe air, just like people. They can hold their breath for a long time underwater.

Their colours range from brown to grey and have different patterns covering them.
they have many shapes.they differ in colors. they have sharp claws and also sharp teeth.

The difference between an alligator and a crocodile is that one can not see the fourth tooth in the lower jaw of an alligator when the alligator's mouth is closed. One can see the fourth tooth in the lower jaw of a crocodile when its mouth is closed.
Sometimes it is said that alligators have as wide a snout as crocodiles have a narrow snout, but there are also some crocodiles with wide snouts.



</doc>
<doc id="15068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15068" title="ZZT">
ZZT

ZZT is a computer game made by Tim Sweeney. People can make other games with this game's engine.


</doc>
<doc id="15070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15070" title="Centre">
Centre

Centre (British spelling) or center (U.S. spelling) means the middle of something.
A circle has a centre.

The word "centre" often means places or buildings where an activity takes place. Common examples are:



</doc>
<doc id="15071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15071" title="Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky">
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky

Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky (Russian: Пётр Ильич Чайкoвский, "Pëtr Il’ič Čajkovskij"; ) (born Kamsko-Votkinsk, 7 May 1840; died St Petersburg, 6 November 1893) was a Russian composer who lived in the Romantic period. He is the most popular of all Russian composers. He wrote melodies which were exciting and dramatic and full of emotions. He learned a lot from studying the music of Western Europe, but his music also sounds very Russian. His compositions include 11 operas, 3 ballets, orchestral music, chamber music and over 100 songs. His ballets ("Swan Lake", "The Nutcracker " and "Sleeping Beauty") have some of the best known tunes in all classical music.

Tchaikovsky’s father was a Ukrainian whose job was a mining engineer. His mother’s grandfather was a Frenchman who had moved to Russia. She was a nervous woman and Tchaikovsky may have got his nervous character from her. Tchaikovsky was only five when he started taking piano lessons. He was soon better than his teacher. The family had an orchestrion (a kind of musical box) which played some tunes from classical music by Mozart, Bellini, Donizetti and Rossini. 

In 1848 the family moved to St. Petersburg. Tchaikovsky was unhappy and unsettled as he was often separated from his family who moved several times. In 1854 his mother died. He tried to comfort himself by playing music. He spent nine years at the School of Jurisprudence. When he left school, he had to get a job. For four years he worked as a clerk in the Ministry of Justice. Then the composer and pianist Anton Rubinstein helped him to become a music student at the newly opened conservatory in St. Petersburg. He learned to play the flute and the organ as well as the piano and learning all about composition. In 1866 he moved to Moscow where Nikolai Rubinstein, the brother of Anton, encouraged him to write music with a Russian character. He worked very hard, and was often exhausted, but he managed to finish his First Symphony, which was performed in 1868. 

Tchaikovsky met some famous musicians including the French composer Berlioz who was visiting Moscow. He also became friendly with the Russian composer Mily Balakirev who was very helpful and persuaded him to rewrite one of his works several times until it was very good. The result was a piece for orchestra called "Romeo and Juliet" which soon became internationally known. Balakirev had four friends who were composers. This circle of friends is often called “The Five” or “The Mighty Handful”. They were interested in using Russian folktunes in their music. Tchaikovsky was never a member of the group, although he liked their ideas. Tchaikovsky was different to them: he had learned music at the Conservatoire where he had studied Western music. The harmonies that he used in his works were often not suitable for Russian folktunes. He wrote many songs which are romantic in character. One of them, "None but the lonely heart", is especially well-known in English.

By now Tchaikovsky ,was writing works which were to make him very famous. He wrote two more symphonies, and his First Piano Concerto, one of the most popular of all piano concertos, was given its first performance in Boston. He was also writing operas and chamber music.

In 1875 Tchaikovsky began making a long tour of Europe. He liked Bizet’s opera "Carmen", but Wagner’s operas from the "Ring cycle " bored him. In 1877 he finished "Swan Lake", the first of his three ballets. The audience did not like it at first because the dancers were not very good.

In the summer of 1877 Tchaikovsky decided to marry. His wife was called Antonina Milyukova. The marriage was a disaster. A few weeks after the marriage, he ran away and never lived with her again.

Another woman was to become important in his life, but in a very different way. It was to be a very unusual relationship. Her name was Nadezhda von Meck. She was the wife of a rich man. She loved Tchaikovsky’s music and promised him that she would pay him a lot of money every month so long as he promised her that he would never try to meet her. Tchaikovsky no longer needed to work. He was able to give up his teaching job at the Conservatory. For several years he spent the winters in Europe and the summers in Russia. Nadezhda and Tchaikovsky wrote long letters to one another, often quite passionate and dreamy,they talked about love, life and how they wanted it to change, but they never saw one another. He had plenty of time to write music: he wrote several operas including "Eugene Onegin" and his Fourth and Fifth Symphonies, the Violin Concerto, the Serenade for Strings, "Capriccio Italienne" and the "1812 Overture". Tchaikovsky loved Nadezhda very much but never actually told her his true feelings.

By 1885 Tchaikovsky had got tired of travelling around. He rented a country house in Klin, just outside Moscow. He lived a regular life, reading, walking in the forest, composing during the day and playing music with his friends in the evenings. He started to have more confidence as a conductor and toured Europe twice, conducting in Leipzig, Berlin, Prague, Hamburg, Paris and London. In 1889 he finished his second ballet, "The Sleeping Beauty" and the next year, while staying in Florence, he wrote his famous opera "The Queen of Spades" based on a story by Pushkin. Later that year Nadezhda von Meck wrote to him that she had lost nearly all her money and could not continue to support him.

In the spring of 1891 he was invited to conduct in New York where the Carnegie Hall was being opened. He also conducted concerts in Baltimore and Philadelphia. When he returned to Russia he wrote his last ballet "The Nutcracker" and his , known as the “Pathétique”
which was dedicated to his nephew with whom he was passionately in love. This work is often considered his best. It was performed in St Petersburg on 16 October 1893. Five days later he suddenly became ill. A lot of people in the city had a terrible illness called cholera. The germs of this illness can be spread through water. Tchaikovsky died four days later. Many people think that he committed suicide by deliberately drinking contaminated water. He may have wanted to (or even been forced to) commit suicide in order to avoid a scandal because he was having a relationship with a nephew of an important aristocratic man. Exactly what happened will always be a mystery.


</doc>
<doc id="15078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15078" title="BBC Radio 1">
BBC Radio 1

BBC Radio 1 (often known as Radio 1) is an international radio station that is based in the United Kingdom. It is owned by BBC and BBC Radio. Radio 1 started broadcasting at 7.00 am on September 30, 1967. Tony Blackburn presented the first programme on the station.

Radio 1 mainly plays popular music throughout the day, and often plays alternative music genres after 7 pm. This includes electronic dance, rock or just interviews. The station is meant to be listened to mainly by people aged 15–29. 

Radio 1 was launched in 1967 due to the popularity of pirate radio stations such as Radio Caroline, which had been outlawed by Act of Parliament. Radio 1 was the first legal radio station in Britain.

Radio 1 also has a sister station, BBC Radio 1Xtra.


</doc>
<doc id="15081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15081" title="1232">
1232





</doc>
<doc id="15082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15082" title="1910">
1910

1910 (MCMX) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 1910s.




</doc>
<doc id="15083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15083" title="1443">
1443

1443 was a common year. It started on a Tuesday.


</doc>
<doc id="15086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15086" title="1558">
1558



</doc>
<doc id="15087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15087" title="Sea level">
Sea level

The sea level is the average height of the ocean (informally called the "sea"). The word 'average' must be used because the height of the sea changes with the tides.

The height of mountains, countries, and so on, is almost always given as "above sea level".

Global warming means that the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets are melting and the oceans are expanding. Sea level rises could easily top a metre by 2100. Low-lying areas such as Bangladesh, Florida and the Netherlands face massive flooding. 



</doc>
<doc id="15093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15093" title="Fear Factory">
Fear Factory

Fear Factory is an American death/industrial metal group. They were formed in Los Angeles, California in late 1990 and disbanded in early 2002. They have currently reformed in the following year adding Byron Stroud (of Strapping Young Lad) as their current bass player. Their classic line-up was Burton C. Bell (vocals), Dino Cazares (guitars), Christian Olde Woblers (bass) and Raymond Herrera (drums) between 1994 and break up time.


</doc>
<doc id="15095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15095" title="Sublime">
Sublime

Sublime was a popular punk/ska rock band. The band was formed in 1988 in Long Beach, California. They have released popular hit singles like "Date Rape", "Doin' Time", "Santeria" and "What I Got".

Sublime broke up 1996, because singer, guitarist and songwriter Bradley Nowell died. He died in a hotel room in San Francisco, California on May 25th of the same year from a heroin overdose. He was 28 years old. Their third and final album "Sublime" was released two months after Nowell's death. The album's song "What I Got" was what made Sublime famous.

Sublime has sold over 8 million albums around the world. 

A few of Sublimes songs have been used in video games. "Santeria" was included in "Guitar Hero World Tour". 
The song "Seed" was included in "Tony Hawk's Underground" and the song "What I Got" was included in "Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX".


</doc>
<doc id="15096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15096" title="Crass">
Crass

Crass was one of the first anarcho-punk bands. The band was formed in Essex, a county in the United Kingdom during 1977. The band split up in 1984.

The group was first of all made up of Penny Rimbaud (playing drums) and Steve Ignorant (who sang). Later they were joined by other people who also lived together in their shared house (or commune) called Dial House.

Crass did their first concert at a squatted festival in Huntley Street, North London. Soon after they played at the famous punk club The Roxy in London's Covent Garden area. However the group were made to come off of the stage because they were very drunk. They also did early concerts with punk band the UK Subs, but not many people went to watch these concerts.

After this members of Crass decided to be more serious about what they were doing. They decided to wear black clothes all of the time, whether or not they were on stage. This was so that no member of the band would be seen as the group 'leader'. They also made a banner that they hung up behind them when they were playing live. This had a logo on it that was made up of symbols like the Christian cross, the swastika and the British flag, as well as a snake with two heads that is eating itself. The meaning of this logo was the idea that "power will destroy itself".

Crass released their first record in 1978. It was called "The Feeding of the 5000". It was meant to have 18 songs on it, but one song was banned by the people who worked at the factory where the records were made. This was because they thought it was blasphemous. This song was called "Asylum". The band instead released the record with a 2 minute gap where that song had been, which they called "The Sound of Free Speech". After this they set up their own record label called Crass Records. This was so that they could control what was on their own records in the future. They re-recorded and released the song that had been banned as a single. They also re-released the first LP with the banned song put back on it.

The second LP released by Crass was the double album "Stations of the Crass". It was released in 1979. One side of this LP was a recording of a live concert that the band played at the Pied Bull pub in Islington, London on August 7, 1979.

Their next LP was released in 1981. It was called "Penis Envy". The band had deliberately changed their sound for this record. The lyrics and the record cover artwork had a strong feminist message. Steve Ignorant did not appear upon it. Instead only the women members of the band, Eve Libertine and Joy DeVivre sung the songs. 

The Crass Records label also released many other records by other musicians and bands. These included Flux Of Pink Indians, Conflict, Poison Girls, Zounds, Honey Bane, Rudimentary Peni and others.


</doc>
<doc id="15097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15097" title="Black Flag">
Black Flag

Black Flag was an American punk rock band. They formed in California in 1977 and broke up in 1986. There were many different members in the band, but the leader was Greg Ginn. Ginn was the guitarist and wrote many of the songs.

Black Flag was one of the groups that created the hardcore punk style. They toured the United States and Canada to play many live shows. They influenced many other musicians and fans to make their own hardcore bands. 

After breaking up, the lead singer Henry Rollins formed a new band by himself, Rollins Band and guitarist Greg Ginn worked on a separate career in the early 90s.


</doc>
<doc id="15106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15106" title="Category:1785 births">
Category:1785 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1785.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="15107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15107" title="Category:1869 deaths">
Category:1869 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15110" title="Tarika">
Tarika

Tarika is the Arabic word for a Sufi order in Islam. The first Tarikas were founded in the 12th and 13th century and many of them still exist today. The head of a Tarika is called a "sheikh", the disciples are called "dervishes".


</doc>
<doc id="15117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15117" title="Crazy Frog">
Crazy Frog

The Crazy Frog is a 3D animated creature, featured on music albums.

Before becoming a ringtone to download onto mobile phones, The Crazy Frog started as a TruboForce 3D animated creature. It was called “The Annoying Thing” in 2003 by its creator, Erik Wernquist of Sweden. With big eyes and a bigger mouth, the high resolution anthropomorphic “thing” is dappled grey-blue and nude save for a helmet, goggles and biker vest. All original videos and images also show small male humanoid genital in a relaxed state that move realistically. Some sources pixel out or remove the genitals.

Members of Bass Bumpers had a dance remix of Harold Faltermeyer’s “Axel-F” the Beverly Hills Cop theme, adding Daniel Maldemahl’s impression of a moped engine (Ring-a-ding-dong) and a Max Headroom, “What’s going on?” (among other dubbed words). In the music video for that remix the “Thing” says featured bites from Daniel’s bit (Ding, ding.) and zooms around on a mimed bike to escape a robot minion on a hover bike. 

The internet and media dubbed it both a Frog and crazy. Erik went along with it.

[First it was simply a vocal imitation of a two stroke, internal combustion engine. Daniel Malmedahl of Sweden created a recording of his imitation in 1997 that eventually spread through peer to peer file sharing on the Internet.]

The company that sells Crazy Frog ringtones (Jamba!) has made £14 million from it.


</doc>
<doc id="15119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15119" title="Surrey">
Surrey

"For the city in British Columbia, see Surrey, British Columbia."

Surrey is a county in southern England. The size of Surrey is about 1,663 km² and it has about 1,059,000 people (2002). It is near London. Surrey's largest town is Guildford. In Guildford there is also a university. The River Thames forms part of Surrey's north border.

Surrey is commonly mentioned in "War of the Worlds" by H.G. Wells (Woking, Leatherhead in particular).


</doc>
<doc id="15128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15128" title="Universal Serial Bus">
Universal Serial Bus

The Universal Serial Bus (USB) is technology that allows a person to connect an electronic device to a computer. It is a high-speed serial bus. 
It is most used on Personal computers. USB is also used on other devices such as the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360. USB connects different devices using a standard interface.

The standard was made to improve plug and play devices. This means that a device can simply be plugged into a free socket. The computer will then recognise it. The computer sometimes installs special software so that the device can directly be used. When it is no longer needed it is disconnected again. This technology is called "hot swapping", meaning it can be plugged and unplugged while the power is on. The computer does not need to be restarted to use a USB device.

USB can also provide a small amount of power to the attached device through the USB chord. Devices that only need a little power can get it from the bus and do not need a separate electric power plug. That allows gadgets like USB battery chargers, lights, and fans.

Most people use USB for computer mice, keyboards, scanners, printers, digital cameras, and USB flash drives. There are over one billion USB devices around the world.

The first version of the Universal Serial Bus was created in 1995. This new technology became an instant success. Since the introduction of USB, people that make electronic devices thought about how it could be used in the future. Today, USB connects a computer or other devices like laptops and MP3 players to peripheral devices.

The bus was introduced by seven companies which represent the leaders in the industry of information technology: Compaq, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, NEC, Northern Telecom, and Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC).

Several years earlier, adopters and developers of USB held a meeting called "Plugfest" at a special hotel in California to test their devices. They selected a hotel that included two rooms: one for sleeping and the other one for testing. The meeting lasted three days. During the meeting, the representatives of about 50 companies connected their USB devices to one general host system.

The logo of the USB device also has its own history. The USB logo was in development for several months. 


Currently, there are three different USB standards that are used: USB 1.0, USB 1.1 and USB 2.0. USB 1.0 is now rarely used.

USB offers three different transfer speeds: 1.5 MBit per second (called "low speed"), 12 MBit per second ("Full Speed") and 480 MBit/second ("Hi Speed"). Hi speed is only available in USB 2.0. Please note that these speeds are raw data speeds (in Million bits per second). The actual data rate is usually lower (and maxes out at around 320 MBit per second due to protocol overhead).

In order to use the "hi speed" transfer rate, the USB controller and the connected device both need to support it. USB is backwards compatible. This means that a USB 2.0 device can be used with a USB 1.1 controller, but only at the speed the USB 1.1 controller supports.

Almost all computers sold today have USB ports, and most of them support USB 2.0. The number of ports they have is usually limited, though. Between two and six ports are common. USB allows connecting USB hubs to add more USB ports.

The hubs themselves are also USB 1.1 or USB 2.0 compliant. On an USB 2.0 controller, standards can be mixed. Devices connected to a USB 1.1 hub will only go as fast as USB 1.1 rates.

USB was designed to be easy to use. When the connectors were designed, lessons learned from other connection techologies were also applied to USB connectors.




A USB system has an asymmetric design. It is made of a host, several downstream USB ports, and multiple peripheral devices connected in a star topology. Additional USB hubs may be included in the tiers, allowing branching into a tree structure with up to five tier levels.

A USB host can have multiple host controllers. Each host controller provides one or more USB ports. Up to 127 devices, including the hub devices, may be connected to a single host controller.

USB devices are linked in series through "hubs". There is always one hub known as the root hub. The root hub is built into to the host controller. There are special hubs, called "sharing hubs". These allow multiple computers to access the same peripheral devices. They work by switching the access between PCs, either manually or automatically. They are popular in small-office environments. In network terms, they converge rather than diverge branches.

A physical USB device can have several logical sub-devices that are referred to as "device functions". A single device may provide several functions, for example, a webcam (video device function) with a built-in microphone (audio device function).

USB device communication is based on "pipes" (logical channels). Pipes are connections from the host controller to a logical entity on the device named an endpoint. The term "endpoint" is occasionally used to incorrectly refer to the pipe. A USB device can have up to 32 active pipes, 16 into the host controller and 16 out of the controller.

Each endpoint can transfer data in one direction only, either into or out of the device, so each pipe is uni-directional. Endpoints are grouped into "interfaces" and each interface is associated with a single device function. An exception to this is endpoint zero, which is used for device configuration and which is not associated with any interface.

When a USB device is first connected to a USB host, the USB device enumeration process is started. The enumeration starts by sending a reset signal to the USB device. The speed of the USB device is determined during the reset signaling. After reset, the USB device's information is read by the host, then the device is assigned a unique 7-bit address. If the device is supported by the host, the device drivers needed for communicating with the device are loaded and the device is set to a configured state. If the USB host is restarted, the enumeration process is repeated for all connected devices.

The host controller polls the bus for traffic, usually in a round-robin fashion, so no USB device can transfer any data on the bus without an explicit request from the host controller.
The computer hardware that contains the host controller and the root hub has an interface for the programmer. It is called "Host Controller Device" (HCD) and is defined by the hardware implementer.

For USB 1.0 and 1.1, there were two different HCD implementations, "Open Host Controller Interface" (OHCI) and "Universal Host Controller Interface" (UHCI). OHCI was developed by Compaq, Microsoft and National Semiconductor, UHCI by Intel.

VIA Technologies licensed the UHCI standard from Intel; all other chipset implementers use OHCI. UHCI relies more on software. This means UHCI is slightly more processor-intensive than OHCI but easier and cheaper to make. Because there were two different implementations, operating system vendors and hardware vendors needed to develop and test on both of them. This increased cost.

The USB specification does not specify any HCD interfaces and is not concerned with them. In other words, USB defines the format of data transfer through the port, but not the system by which the USB hardware communicates with the computer it sits in.

During the design phase of USB 2.0, the USB-IF insisted that there was only one implementation. The USB 2.0 HCD implementation is called the "Enhanced Host Controller Interface" (EHCI). Only EHCI can support hi-speed (480 Mbit/s) transfers. Most of PCI-based EHCI controllers have other HCD implementations called 'companion host controller' to support Full Speed (12 Mbit/s) and may be used for any device that claims to be a member of a certain class. An operating system is supposed to implement all device classes, so it can provide generic drivers for any USB device. Device classes are decided upon by the Device Working Group of the USB Implementers Forum.

Device classes include:



</doc>
<doc id="15129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15129" title="Punk rock">
Punk rock

Punk rock (or "punk") is a music genre related to rock music. It is often described as harder, louder, and cruder than other rock music. Many punk rock songs have lyrics (words) which tell angry stories or which use rude or controversial words.

Punk rock is a style of music. Many musicians and punk rock music listeners ("punk rockers") want to protest or rebel against the norms or rules of society. Punks say that people should "Do It Yourself", which means that people should try to accomplish their goals using the materials in their own communities. Many punk bands make their own music recordings and distribute them without using a major record company.

Many punks have strong political beliefs. Punk rock musicians are often mad at the government, the police, and laws. Many punk rock songs protest injustice, lies, and unfairness in countries. Almost all punks are leftists, who believe that a country should share the products and food that it produces with all the people in the country. Some punks are vegetarian or vegans, because they believe that animals should not be killed for food. Some punks are anarchists. Very few punks are conservative, libertarian, or Republican.

Many punk musicians put colored hair dye in their hair or put gel to make it stand up. They wear distinctive clothes as a form of protest or rebellion against the norms and rules of society.

Punk rock developed in New York City in the mid-1970s. Bands like The Ramones, Television, The Heartbreakers, Blondie, and Patti Smith played loud, angry songs. Many bands played at a club called CBGB's. The music soon spread to Australia and Britain, were bands started playing punk rock in 1976-1977. British bands like Buzzcocks, The Clash, The Damned, Generation X, The Jam, and Sex Pistols played punk rock music that was inspired by the music being played in New York, as well as by garage rock, pub rock, and other protopunk music.

These early "punks" rejected the excesses of mainstream 1970s rock. They created fast, hard-edged music, with short songs, stripped-down instrumentation, and often political, anti-establishment lyrics. They often did controversial things, such as saying bad words in public. Many newspapers wrote articles about the "bad" behavior of punk rock musicians.

In the 1980s, a new type of punk rock called "hardcore punk" or "hardcore" developed. Punk rock music began being mixed with Heavy Metal rock music. Many hardcore bands began playing in the United States.

In the 1990s, punk rock began being mixed with pop music to create a new lighter style of music called pop-punk. Pop-punk bands include Green Day and Good Charlotte. Some pop-punk bands mixed punk rock with ska music.

Pop-punk was still popular in the 2000s. Some people who like the 1970s-style punk rock criticize pop-punk because pop-punk is commercialized.

Some people say that punk rock is dead. But that is not true, because the spirit lives on and many punk rockers are around today.




</doc>
<doc id="15132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15132" title="Edip Yuksel">
Edip Yuksel

Edip Yüksel (who was born 1957) used to be a student of Rashad Khalifa and used to be a member of the United Submitters International , which is an Islamic group that was made by the controversial Khalifa. He sometimes works as a legal researcher and a community college teacher, but is mostly a supporter to change the Islamic religion. He lives in Tucson, Arizona.

All published by the United Submitters own press. 




</doc>
<doc id="15134" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15134" title="Epididymitis">
Epididymitis

Epididymitis is a painful inflammation of the epididymis, usually resulting from bacterial infection, but also occasionally caused by injury or viral infection.


</doc>
<doc id="15173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15173" title="Category:1893 deaths">
Category:1893 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15174" title="Category:1840 births">
Category:1840 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1840.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="15175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15175" title="Category:1840">
Category:1840


</doc>
<doc id="15186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15186" title="Perth, Western Australia">
Perth, Western Australia

Perth is the capital city of the state of Western Australia. It is built on the banks of the Swan River. Almost 1.7 million people live in the city.
It is the fourth biggest city in Australia, behind Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Perth was founded in 1829 by Captain James Stirling.
Perth is famous for its beautiful white, sandy beaches. Popular local beaches include Cottesloe and Scarborough. These beaches are ideal for swimming and bodysurfing. A popular local tourist attraction is Rottnest Island, which is populated by small native mammals called Quokkas.

Perth is a sister city with many other cities. Sister cities can share students and business contacts. Perth is a sister city to these cities:


Perth also has some other agreements with Perth, Perth and Kinross in Scotland and formerly Grenoble, France.

Perth is home to four public and one private university. These are:


Perth is the windiest city in Australia. It is also considered to be the third windiest city in the world. Perth is also the sunniest city in Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="15187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15187" title="Osama bin Laden">
Osama bin Laden

Osama bin Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden (10 March 1957, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia – 2 May 2011, Abbottabad, Pakistan) was the head of the al-Qaeda terrorist organization, which has killed many people in attacks around the world. He was a member of the very rich bin Laden family, whose origins are in Yemen.

Bin Laden admitted that he planned the 9/11 attack on the United States. A videotape of him talking about it was shown on TV. The terror network which he helped create (al-Qaeda) is amongst the deadliest in the world. 

Bin Laden, and fellow al-Qaeda leaders Abu Hafiza and Ayman al-Zawahiri, were believed to be hiding in Pakistan, or near the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas. 

On May 1 2011, U.S. President Barack Obama announced that Osama bin Laden had been killed at a mansion outside Islamabad, and that the United States of America had his corpse. His corpse was buried at sea at an undisclosed location.

Bin Laden probably believed that the restoration of Sharia law would set things right in the Muslim world, and that all other ideologies—"pan-Arabism, socialism, communism, democracy"—must be opposed. These beliefs, along with violent expansive jihad, have sometimes been called Qutbism. 

He believed Afghanistan under the rule of Mullah Omar's Taliban was "the only Islamic country" in the Muslim world. Bin Laden had consistently talked about his belief in the need for violent jihad to make right what he believed are injustices against Muslims perpetrated by the United States and sometimes by other non-Muslim states, the need to eliminate the state of Israel, and the necessity of forcing the US to withdraw from the Middle East. He had also called on Americans to "reject the immoral acts of fornication and homosexuality, intoxicants (e.g. alcohol), gambling, and usury" in an October 2002 letter.

One of Bin Laden's most infamous beliefs was that civilians, including women and children, are legitimate targets of jihad. Bin Laden was antisemitic, and had delivered warnings against alleged Jewish conspiracies: "These Jews are masters of usury and leaders in treachery. They will leave you nothing, either in this world or the next". Shia Muslims have been listed along with "Heretics... America and Israel," as the four principal "enemies of Islam" at the ideology classes of bin Laden's Al-Qaeda organization.

In keeping with Wahhabi beliefs (the Saudi type of Islam), bin Laden opposed music on religious grounds, and his attitude towards technology was mixed. He was interested in "earth-moving machinery and genetic engineering of plants" on the one hand, but rejected "chilled water" on the other.

His viewpoints and methods of achieving them led to him been designated as a terrorist by scholars, journalists from the New York Times, the British Broadcasting Corporation, Qatari news station Al Jazeera, analysts such as Peter Bergen, Michael Scheuer, Marc Sageman, and Bruce Hoffman and he was indicted on terrorism charges by law enforcement agencies in Madrid, New York City, and Tripoli. He stayed in hiding until he was killed by the United States in Pakistan, in May 2011.

Osama bin Laden's name can be transliterated in several ways. Usāmah bin Muhammad bin 'Awad bin Lādin (Arabic: أسامة بن محمد بن عوض بنلادن), shortened to Usama bin Laden (أسامة بن لادن).

The form used here, Osama bin Laden, is used by most English-language mass media. This includes CNN and the BBC. The FBI and Fox News use Usama bin Laden. Often the name is abbreviated to UBL. 

The bin Laden family (or "Binladin," as they like to be called) usually use the name as a surname in the Western style. The family company is known as the "Binladin Brothers for Contracting and Industry". It is one of the largest corporations in Saudi Arabia. 

Bin Laden had many aliases and nicknames, such as 'the Prince', 'the Emir', 'Abu Abdallah', 'Mujahid Shayekh', and 'the Director'.

U.S. President Barack Obama launched a mission, "Operation Geronimo", where United States Special Operation forces raided bin Laden's hideout compound. At around 01:00 Pakistan Standard Time, 2 May 2011 (UTC 20:00, 1 May), bin Laden was killed by bullets to the chest and head. His body was buried at sea later that day.


</doc>
<doc id="15188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15188" title="Mayflower (ship)">
Mayflower (ship)

The Mayflower was a ship. It is most famous on its maiden voyage (first voyage) when pilgrims and other settlers travelled on it to the Plymouth colony in Massachusetts. The "Mayflower" set sail from England in July of 1620, but had to turn around twice because "Speedwell", the ship it was traveling with, was leaking. It left on September 6 of the same year, leaving the "Speedwell" behind. The ship carried 102 men, women and children, who lived in the dark, damp, cold cargo decks below the crew's quarters. Many of them died on the voyage.

After over two months at sea, the English colonists arrived at Cape Cod on November 11, 1620. A few weeks later, they sailed up the coast to Plymouth, and started to build their town where a group of Wampanoag people had lived before (a sickness had killed most of them). They lived on the ship for a few more months, rowing to shore to build houses in the day, and returning to the ship at night. Many people began to get very sick from the cold and the wet. About half the people on the "Mayflower" died that first winter from common illnesses such as colds, coughs and fevers. In March of 1621, there were enough houses for everyone to live on land. The "Mayflower" set sail back to England on April 5, 1621. 

In 1623, a year after Christopher Jones's death, the "Mayflower" was probably dismantled (taken apart) for firewood in England.



</doc>
<doc id="15189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15189" title="800">
800

Centuries: 7th century - 8th century - 9th century

Decades: 750s 760s 770s 780s 790s - 800s - 810s 820s 830s 840s 850s

Years: 795 796 797 798 799 - 800 - 801 802 803 804 805



</doc>
<doc id="15190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15190" title="Reykjavík">
Reykjavík

Reykjavík is the capital city of the island country of Iceland. It is also the largest city in that country. The population of Reykjavík is over 117,000 people.Theres a geothermal bath both natural and unnatural in appearance it is situated in the capital itself , people relax in this hot spring during the cooler months Björk, an Icelandic singer, is from Reykjavik.


</doc>
<doc id="15195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15195" title="Uniform">
Uniform

Uniforms are special clothes to show that a group of people belong together. The group of people will all be dressed in the same way ("uni" means "one" so the word means "one form").

People may wear uniforms for several reasons. The uniform will help the people to feel a team spirit so that they work well together. They may also help members of the public to know who they are, e.g. in a department store a customer can tell who is a member of staff, or in the street people will recognize a police officer. Uniforms may also be worn because they are practical, e.g. it might keep them safe when operating machinery or keep them clean when doing their work.

In the army soldiers wear uniform. They also wear extra things such as badges on their uniform which show how important they are (what rank they are).

Nurses in hospitals wear uniform. Sometimes servants wear uniform when working for their employers. Important domestic workers may wear special smart uniforms called "livery" e.g. porters (doormen) at luxury hotels.

In some countries such as India, Japan, China, Korea, Australia and United Kingdom many school children wear uniform. The uniform would be a set of clothes with the school crest or symbol. It helps them to feel proud of their school and children from rich families and poor families all look the same. In Britain, for example, most young children wear school uniform. In state schools the children may wear polo-necked T shirts with a school logo. Other schools, especially private schools, may have a formal uniform, or they may be free to choose their own clothes so long as they are the school colour.


</doc>
<doc id="15196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15196" title="Battle of Trafalgar">
Battle of Trafalgar

The Battle of Trafalgar was a sea battle fought on 21 October 1805 between the navies of France and Spain on one side, and Great Britain on the other. The battle took place near Cape Trafalgar (a cape is a piece of land sticking out into the sea), which is in southwest Spain. The battle ended with a clear victory for the British forces. This allowed Britain to become the world's largest sea power for 100 years. The Battle of Trafalgar was the most important sea battle of the 19th century.

France and Britain had been at war for some time. France had built the strongest army in Europe, and controlled much of the land. Because it was an island, Britain had built a strong navy, and had used this to try to prevent French ships from leaving their ports. (This is called a "blockade".) Because the French leader Napoleon Bonaparte wanted to invade (capture) Britain, he knew that he would have to sink the British navy first, otherwise it would be able to prevent his army from landing.

The British knew that France might try to attack them, and had placed ships outside the important French ports, like Toulon. The admiral (chief sailor) in charge of the British fleet was Lord Horatio Nelson. He had become famous in Britain for his victories over the French, such as at the Battle of the Nile in 1798.

But the French navy managed to avoid Nelson's fleet and leave Toulon during a storm and met up with a group of Spanish ships. Spain at the time was an ally (partner) of France. This small fleet first sailed to the West Indies, then returned across the Atlantic Ocean to the Spanish port of Cadiz. They wanted to join up with more French ships to make a stronger fleet. The British had chased them both ways across the ocean.

The French then learned that some British ships had been seen in Gibraltar, and thought this meant that the British fleet was not as strong as it had been before. So they decided that this was the best time to leave Cadiz.

The next day, the 33 ships of the French and Spanish fleet were met by the 27 ships of the British. Nelson had put his ships into two lines. Before the battle started, he sent a message which was to become famous: "England expects that every man will do his duty".

The two British lines sailed through the French and Spanish line, splitting it, and was able to cause great damage to its ships.

However, Admiral Nelson, on board his ship, "HMS Victory", was hit by a musket bullet fired by a sniper from the French ship "Redoutable". The bullet entered via his shoulder, went into his lung and lodged in his spine. He was taken below the deck and died later, shortly before 4.30pm, as the battle died down. The French and Spanish had lost 22 ships, the British lost none. 

Because France was unable to invade Britain, British soldiers were able to fight on the European continent together with the armies of other countries against the armies of Napoleon. In the end, Napoleon was finally defeated, in 1815, at the Battle of Waterloo. With control of the seas, Britain was able to build up a large empire during the years that followed and its navy was the world's largest for over a hundred years.

Nelson's body was brought back to Great Britain and he was given a hero's funeral. In 1843, the famous Trafalgar Square and Nelson's Column were built in London to honour him.


</doc>
<doc id="15197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15197" title="Peter Frampton">
Peter Frampton

Peter Frampton (born April 22, 1950) is an English guitarist. He is best known for the album "Frampton Comes Alive".



</doc>
<doc id="15198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15198" title="1537">
1537




</doc>
<doc id="15199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15199" title="Nairobi">
Nairobi

Nairobi is the capital and largest city of Kenya. About three million people live there. The city was founded in 1899 as a railway depot linking Uganda to Mombasa. Nairobi is the fourth largest city in Africa. Nairobi is also very sunny at most times. Nairobi is a good place in to go for a ride in a car. Most people like shopping at the YaYa Center which is a shopping mall.


</doc>
<doc id="15201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15201" title="Derek And The Dominos">
Derek And The Dominos

Derek and the Dominos an American blues rock band. The band's members were Eric Clapton, Carl Radle, Bobby Whitlock, Jim Gordon, and Duane Allman. They made the album Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs. Layla, one of the greatest love songs, with the well-known guitar riff came from that same album. The band broke up after one album.


</doc>
<doc id="15202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15202" title="Carl Radle">
Carl Radle

Carl Dean Radle (born June 18, 1942 Tulsa, Oklahoma, died May 30, 1980) was an American musician, best known for being the bassist in Derek and the Dominos. Radle worked with many well-known artists and worked on many gold and platinum singles and albums. Radle is thought by many to have been the best bass guitar sideman in the music business. 

In May 30, 1980, Radle died at age 37, of problems from a kidney infection caused by his alcoholism and drug addiction.

Radle took clarinet and piano lessons when he was young. While at Edison High School in Tulsa, Radle fell in love with rock and roll. By the time he graduated in 1960, Radle had a bought an old guitar and taught himself how to play. As he became more skilled, he began playing in Tulsa clubs in the area with friends and musicians David Gates, Leon Russell, J.J. Cale, Jim Markham, Tommy Crook, Jim Karstein, Chuck Blackwell, Larry Bell, and many others. This group would be considered the starters of what a style of music known as The Tulsa Sound (a mix of Rockabilly, Rock and Roll, and Blues sounds of the lates 1950s and early 1960s.) After graduating high school, they began to go to California to try to get into the music business.

Leon Russell was one of the first to go to California, and his home/stubio on Skyhill Drive in Hollywood, became a place for young Tulsa musicians and different friends to stay. They mostly played as back-up musicians in clubs, with soon to be well known singers like Bobby Rydell fronting the act. Radle, during this time, recorded with pop duo Skip & Flip; with Radle they released the single "Tossin' and Turnin' / Everytime I Have to Cry".

After finding it very hard to make a living in the music world, Radle came back to Tulsa in 1964 and joined the Air National Guard. Radle was stationed in Texas for about a year, and was released (discharged) from the Air National Guard in 1965. After that, he came back to Tulsa again, once he returned, Russell called Radle from California, offering a job as the new bass guitarist for Gary Lewis & the Playboys.

Radle gave the music business another chance and moved back to California. Radle recorded and toured with Gary Lewis & the Playboys for about a year. During that time he was on television shows such as "The Ed Sullivan Show", "Shindig", "Hullabaloo", and "The Tonight Show". Other Tulsan musicians Jimmy Karstein and Tommy Crook also were members of this group. During this time they had many top ten sings like "Everybody Loves a Clown" and "Count Me In". Radle worked on fourteen of Gary Lewis's albums. This trip ended in January of 1967 when Gary Lewis was into military service, and the band ended.

Radle stayed in California doing studio work and pick-up gigs, including working behind Dobie Gray in clubs. He recorded some with John Lee Hooker. Radle was on two albums in 1968 with The Colours, "The Colours" and "Atmosphere", which also had Tulsan musician Chuck Blackwell. In 1969, Leon Russell introduced Radle to Delaney and Bonnie Bramlett to help form the group Delaney & Bonnie and Friends. This group included Leon Russell, Rita Collidge, and Dave Mason. On tour the group was the opening act for Blind Faith, a supergroup which Eric Clapton was apart of. Once Blind Faith broke up, Eric Clapton joined Delaney & Bonnie and Friends for a tour and an album. Radle worked on writing and arranging two of the groups hit songs, "Get Ourselves Together" and "Never Ending Song of Love".

Delaney & Bonnie and Friends split up after about a year, and in early 1970 some of the former members, including Radle, joined Leon Russell, who formed the Joe Cocker Mad Dogs and Englishmen ensemble. The group had more than two dozen artists and performers. The tour went through forty-six cities in fifty-six days. This tour was one of the biggest in rock history. A major movie and a gold-selling album came from this same tour.

During that tour, Bobby Whitlock became friends with Eric Clapton, who wanted to put together a group to tour and promote his first solo album. This group would turn into Derek and the Dominos. Whitlock called in Radle and Los Angeles drummer Jim Gordon to join the group. They took time in May and July of 1970 to work with George Harrison on his album "All Things Must Pass", which had the hit singles "My Sweet Lord" and "What is Life". During a break in June, Clapton, Gordon, Whitlock, and Radle began serious work and completed their first single as Derek and the Dominos, "Tell the Truth" with "Roll it Over" on the B-side. After the George Harrison sessions finished in late summer of 1970, the new group continued sessions at Criteria Studios in Miami, Florida, with Tom Dowd as producer. During this time Duane Allman joined the group, and one of the greatest rock albums of all time, "Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs", came from this work.

The group took time off in August of 1971 to help George Harrison in the Concert for Bangladesh. Artists that were present at that concert included Bob Dylan, Billy Preston, Ringo Starr, Leon Russell, Jim Keltner, and many others. 

Derek and the Dominoes began work for another group of songs, but disliking the new songs, and the tensions between the band, the band ended. For the next three years, Radle continued session work on projects with artists such as Art Garfunkel, Duane Allman, John Lee Hooker, Rita Collidge, Leon Russell, Bobby Whitlock, Donovan and Freddie King.

In April of 1974, Eric Clapton returned, recovered from a heroin addiction, and formed a new band. Its members including Radle, George Terry, Jaime Oldaker, Dick Sims, and Yvonne Elliman on vocals. The group recorded again at Criteria Studios under Dowd's production, to create the album "461 Ocean Boulevard". Radle arranged the track "Motherless Children" for the same album. For the next five years, Clapton's group, along with Radle (and vocalist Marcy Levy) worked closely together on many very successful gold and platinum albums. 

By the second half of 1970s, Radle's health had started to turn bad, mostly from his large amount of drinking and drug use. In 1978, Clapton broke up the band and all the musicians went on to other things. Radle worked for awhile with Peter Frampton, but returned to Tulsa. On May 30, 1980, Radle died at age 37, of problems from a kidney infection caused by his alcoholism and drug addiction. At the time, his passing was barely noticed by Clapton's fans, or the music press.


</doc>
<doc id="15204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15204" title="Nineteen Eighty-Four">
Nineteen Eighty-Four

Nineteen Eighty-Four is a novel written by George Orwell in 1948. The main character is Winston Smith, who lives in Oceania, under the rule of The Party and Big Brother. He becomes friends with the character O'Brien. He also falls in love with Julia, who hates Big Brother and The Party.

Winston's job is to change or "rectify" printed news stories and articles. No one in Oceania can look at the old changes. They are not allowed to even think about them again, or else they will be in big trouble. This is called "thoughtcrime". Thoughtcrime and Facecrime are punished by death. Another thing they are trying to do is cut all the hard words out of the English language. They are changing it to make it more simple so that people will not be too clever or think too much. They are not allowed to have families. Other people who live on the outside of the system have more freedoms. They are called "proles". There is an endless war going on with another nation, Eurasia. In other parts of the world, large wars are being fought to keep the people busy. The sides in the wars sometimes change. When this happens, they pretend there was no change and that the sides were always the same. This means that all the articles will have to be changed by people like Winston who are not supposed to think about what they are doing. When news is "rectified", the old copies are destroyed.

Orwell got the idea for the book when he saw in the newspapers of London that they listed how much the country's supplies increased (more supplies) during World War II when they were actually very low on supplies and were getting smaller. With his knowledge of communism after living in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for five years, he started writing a political satire of the possible condition of Britain in 50 years. He wrote the book over several years, finishing, mostly in Jura, Scotland, finally sending the manuscript to his publishers in December 1948. 

The book was not an attack on socialism, which Orwell supported, but on communism. He once wrote Later he repeated that idea, writing about "1984" 

At the end of "Nineteen-Eighty Four", Winston is taken to the "Ministry of Love". This is the prison of Oceania. While he is there, he is tortured and constantly watched by four telescreens, which he can not escape from. The only place he is safe is in his own mind. Soon he loses control over it as well. At the start he thought that O'Brien was an ally (friend) against the Party. This is not true because O'Brien is his questioner. He thinks O'Brien betrayed him. So that he is not executed, Winston must answer many questions. He also worried about the bond (agreement) of love he made with Julia. He is not sure if she betrayed him or not. In the end, Winston is faced with his worst fear: a cage filled with rats, which can eat his face. He then breaks down (stops fighting). He dies as only another member of the Party.

Details of the Endless War:

Newspeak is a fictional (not real) language that appears in the book "Nineteen Eighty-Four". It is the official language of Oceania. At the end of his book, George Orwell described Newspeak. It started out as the English language, but the number of words gets smaller each year. The Party are trying to stop people from rebelling, so it destroys words like "freedom" and "love", saying that people can not think of it if there is no word for it. In the society, this is supposed to prevent thoughtcrime, which is thinking against the Party, or thinking about the past. For example, a person could not say "I want to be free", because there was no word for "free" any more, so the person could not describe what he or she was feeling. At the time, it was supposed to make fun of politically correct speech, and "thoughtcrime" made fun of censorship. "Newspeak" is also used for military reasons, such as Oceania's Ministry of Peace (in Newspeak: "Minipax"), really the war department. Words like "Peace", "Truth", "Love", and "Plenty" were used in Newspeak a lot to mean their exact opposites. Another "Newspeak" word, "joycamp", means "forced labor camp". Other "Newspeak" words were used for political reasons. Words like ""crimethink"" were defined by the "Party", and became laws of the land.

"Book" magazine ranked the character of Big Brother as #59 on its "100 Best Characters in Fiction Since 1900" list.





</doc>
<doc id="15206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15206" title="Grover Cleveland">
Grover Cleveland

Stephen Grover Cleveland (born March 18, 1837 died June 24, 1908) was the 22nd (1885–1889) and also the 24th (1893–1897) President of the United States. He was the only president to serve two terms that were not one and then the other.

He was known for his honesty, integrity, and having a firm stance against corruption. He believed in small government (he wanted the government to tax less and spend less). He used the presidential veto power over 500 times, far more than most other presidents, to reject bills he disagreed with. He did not want the United States to get its military involved in Latin America.



</doc>
<doc id="15208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15208" title="Bassist">
Bassist

A bassist is a musician whose musical instrument is a bass guitar or a double bass. In rock, pop, country, metal, jazz fusion, and funk music, most bassists play a bass guitar. In some types of jazz, and in rockabilly, bluegrass, and in symphony orchestras, bassists play a double bass.

Many professional rock, pop, country, metal, and funk, rockabilly, and bluegrass, bassists learn to play by performing in groups for many years and by taking private lessons with bass teachers. 

Bassists who play in symphony orchestras, or who play jazz or jazz fusion often learn to play the bass in a conservatory, music school, college, or university. College or university degrees in double bass include the Bachelor of Music degree (which takes four years) and the Master of Music degree (which takes two years).

There are fewer Bass players than traditional guitar players. Some believe the bass is harder to play, although it has fewer strings

Bassists, like other musicians, have a much lower average income than many other job categories, such as accountants or administrators. Although a tiny number of famous bassists make a large amount of money, and a small number of bassists have full-time jobs in bands or orchestras, most bassists have low incomes. Many bassists do not earn enough from playing, so they do other music-related jobs, such as teaching bass.


</doc>
<doc id="15210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15210" title="Fascism">
Fascism

Fascism is a kind of government. In fascism, the country is considered more important than any one person, group, or liberty. A country under this kind of government is always run by a person called a dictator, who has the right of total control over the government and people. Fascist leadership might also be similar to an oligarchy, such as in Italy, where the fascist party was ruled by its "grand council".

Fascism appeared in Europe before World War II because many people were afraid of communism and they thought that democracy was too weak to defend them. Fascism was supposed to be the answer for that need, while also pursuing an opposition to capitalism, which supposedly weakened and divided the nation much like democracy and socialism did. Believers in Marxism, on the contrary, believed that capitalism either creates or uses fascism to destroy the workers' movements and secure rule by the upper classes.

Fascist governments are different from communist ones in that fascists, in theory, support the right of labor representatives (labor unions) and corporate representatives (CEOs, company presidents, etc.) to negotiate - through a system called corporatism- while communism, in theory, calls for complete economic control and ownership of the economy. Most regimes that have been called "communist" or "fascist" were really state capitalist systems. Instead, they usually work closely with people who already manage these things but use the resources to build up the army or other parts of the fascist state. It is very important to fascists that all schools in the country teach children that the state is the most important thing in the world. All adults are expected to either join the fascist party or support it as the government. Some governments considered to be fascist, similar to the Nazis in Germany, pursued racist policies of segregation and/or extermination in opposition to cultural and ethnic pluralism.

It is always a big crime in fascist countries to speak against the leader or ruling party. Fascist leaders almost always give themselves a high military rank, or appear in public in an army or navy uniform, because fascist countries consider the army the most important part of the government.

The first fascist government was run by Benito Mussolini in Italy from 1922 until 1943. The governments of Engelbert Dollfuss in Austria and Adolf Hitler in Germany are also referred to as fascist, but this is not completely accurate. Other examples are Greece under Joannis Metaxas, Spain under the rule of Francisco Franco, and Portugal when António de Oliveira Salazar was the head of the government. All of these governments were much like Italian fascism, especially before and during World War II.

Some might say Imperial Japan under Hideki Tojo was a fascist state, but some people might just say it was a Constitutional monarchy that followed Nationalism and Militarism. 

Fascism is named after the fasces, which is an old Roman Empire name for a group of sticks tied together. It is easy to break one stick in half. It is very hard to break many sticks tied together in half. Fascists think that everyone following the same leader makes the country strong the same way the sticks are.

In countries led by fascist governments, the government tries to control all areas of life, including work, school, and family life. Fascist ideas were most common around the time of World War II. Many people were killed by fascist governments because the government did not like them or because they opposed fascism. Even more were killed in wars started by fascist governments. However, the fascist governments of Portugal and Spain did not take part in World War II, and stayed in power until the 1970s. Many scholars consider these governments to have been or evolved into traditionalist and conservative rather than fascist. Fascism, while supporting order and stability as conservatism does, wants to transform society in new ways.

After World War II, Fascism lost much of its influence, although movements and politicians inspired by Fascism have had success in several countries, such as Italy.


</doc>
<doc id="15211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15211" title="Erection">
Erection

An erection () of a body part such as a man's penis, a woman's clitoris or a nipple refers to it becoming larger and harder. 

The term "erection" is most often used to refer to an erection of the penis. A man's penis needs to be erect in order for him to take part in sexual intercourse and penetrate his partner's vagina and to ejaculate semen. For an erection to take place, a man must be sexually aroused or stimulated (made sexually excited). This can happen if he is touched sexually, or even if he is not touched – for example, if he sees a naked person or thinks about having sex with someone else. Tissues in the penis called the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis fill with blood, causing the penis to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright. A man's erection usually stops if he is no longer sexually aroused, or after he has had an orgasm and has ejaculated. Blood flows out of the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa penis, and the penis goes back to its normal size. A man who often has problems having or keeping an erection of his penis is said to have erectile dysfunction (ED). On the other hand, an erection that lasts too long is also a dangerous condition called priapism.

Erect penises have appeared in erotic (sexually exciting) art for a very long time. Pictures of men with erections appear on ancient objects and in paintings. In the past, the erect penis was also a symbol or sign of health and fertility (the ability to give life). Ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans believed in gods that had erect penises. Today, erect penises do not often appear in artworks or movies because many people think that showing a man's penis when it is erect is obscene (not decent). Men with larger penises are often thought to be more handsome, manly and powerful. A lot of people also believe that men with bigger penises are better at making their partners feel good when they are having sex. However, this is not always true.

Like a man's penis, a woman's clitoris can also become erect. This happens in the same way as an erection of the penis. The clitoris also has a corpus spongiosum and corpus cavernosum, and when a woman is sexually excited these parts of the clitoris fill with blood. This causes the clitoris and other parts of the woman's sex organs to become larger, harder, redder in colour, and very sensitive to being touched. An erection of the clitoris that does not go away after a long time is a medical problem called clitorism.

The nipples of men and women can also become erect. Women's nipples become erect when they are breastfeeding (giving milk to their babies from their breasts). Men and women may also have an erection of their nipples when they are sexually excited, or if they feel cold. Nipples do not have any tissue in them that fills with blood. Instead, the body's nervous system makes muscles in the nipples contract (become shorter), causing them to stand up and become slightly harder.

The term "erection" is most often used to refer to an erection of the penis. A man's penis is usually soft, quite short and hangs down. When the penis is like this, it is said to be flaccid (). In order for the man to take part in sexual intercourse by putting his penis inside a woman's vagina, his penis needs to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright. When this happens, it is said that the penis is erect, or that the man has an erection. The penis needs to be erect before the man can have an orgasm and ejaculate semen.

The scientific name for an erection is "tumescence" (which means "swelling"). Some slang terms for having an erection are "getting hard", "getting wood" and "having a hard-on", and an erect penis is informally called a "boner", "hard-on", "stiffy", "wood" or "woody".

The penis is shaped like a banana or sausage. It has a duct or tube called the urethra running right through it. Semen and urine pass along the urethra to get out of the body. Around the whole urethra is tissue called the corpus spongiosum penis (which is Latin for "body of the penis that is like a sponge"). It is near the lower surface of the penis. Also inside the penis near its upper surface are two cylindrical tissues called the corpora cavernosa penis (Latin for "bodies of the penis that are like caves"). (One of these tissues by itself is called a corpus cavernosum.) The corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis are filled with many blood vessels called arteries which carry blood.

When a man is sexually aroused or stimulated (made sexually excited) by touch – for example, if he masturbates or another person touches him in a sexual way – the touching is picked up by nerves in the arteries of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. The nerves then cause a chemical called nitric oxide to be released into the arteries. This makes the arteries dilate (become wider), and they fill up with blood. Thus, the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis all fill with blood and become larger and harder. This makes the penis grow longer, thicker and harder. The corpora cavernosa penis press against blood vessels called veins that let blood flow out of the penis. Since less blood can flow out of the penis through the veins, more of it stays in the penis, which remains hard. During an erection, a valve stops urine from entering the urethra so that only semen flows along it. This is why it is very difficult for a man to urinate when he is having an erection.

A man can also become sexually aroused without being touched, for example, if he sees a naked person or thinks about having sex with someone. In this case, his brain sends messages through his spinal cord (which is inside his vertebral column or backbone) to his penis and makes an erection happen. The brain can also stop an erection from happening, even if the man is being touched sexually.

An erection of the penis can also happen by itself when a man is asleep, often when he is dreaming. The scientific term for this is "nocturnal penile tumescence" (which means "swelling of the penis at night"). It is also common for a man to wake up after a night's sleep to find that he has an erection. This is often caused by his bladder being full of urine, which presses on the tissues in the penis. Such an erection is sometimes informally called a "morning glory" or "morning wood".

After a man has had an orgasm and has ejaculated, his erection usually ends. How long this takes depends on the length and thickness of his penis. A man can also stop having an erection without having an orgasm and ejaculating, if he is no longer sexually aroused. Nerves in his body cause the arteries in the penis to constrict (become narrower). This forces blood out of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. As they go back to their normal size, they do not press so much on the veins leading out of the penis. This lets blood flow faster out of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. The scientific term for this process is "detumescence".

The angle that an erect penis makes varies from one man to another. If it is imagined that a man is standing upright and there is a horizontal line stretching out from the base of his penis, most men's erect penises point upwards from the line at a certain angle (as shown in the photograph on the left). However, it is common and normal for an erect penis to point nearly vertically upwards, nearly vertically downwards, or even horizontally forward. The angle depends on how long a man's suspensory ligament is. The suspensory ligament is a band of tough, stringy tissue that joins a man's penis to the front of his pelvis.

Few men's penises are completely straight when they are erect. It is common for an erect penis to have a slight curve in it. The curve can be up or down, or to the left or right. A curve of up to 30° is considered normal, and medical treatment is usually not needed unless the angle of curvature is more than 45°. A curved penis does not usually cause a man any problems when he is having sex. However, if the curvature of a penis changes, this could be caused by an illness called Peyronie's disease (see below).

A survey of 300 men over the age of 18 carried out between 11 March and 17 March 2001 in Cancún, Mexico, found that among those men the average erect human penis was about 14.928 centimetres (5.877 inches) long, and that most of them had an erect penis length of between 14 and 16 centimetres (5.5 and 6.3 inches). The typical girth or circumference (the length around the outside of the penis) was about 12.63 centimetres (4.972 inches), and most erect penises had a girth of between 12 and 13 centimetres (4.7 and 5.1 inches). As this survey was only done in one city, its findings may not apply to men from other countries.

The size of an erect penis generally does not change after puberty, the time when a boy becomes sexually mature. Some people have surgery to make their penises larger. However, a study that came out in 2006 found that only 35% of men who had gone for such surgery were happy with the results.

A man who often has problems having or keeping an erection of his penis is said to have erectile dysfunction. Erectile dysfunction is also known as ED, impotence or male impotence. The study of erectile dysfunction comes within andrology, the field of science dealing with men's health.

ED is not uncommon. For example, about 10% of all men in the United Kingdom will have ED happening to them regularly at some time in their lives. It can be due to both physiological and psychological reasons. Physiological reasons are those dealing with how the body works. Psychological reasons are those involving human behaviour and how people think.

These are some common physiological reasons for ED:


ED can also happen for psychological reasons. For example, a man can find it difficult to have an erection:


Having erections is seen by many people as a very important part of being a man. Therefore, a man who has ED often feels that he is not manly enough and not successful in life. This can lead to him feeling ashamed and not as good as other men. The matter is made worse because men often do not like talking about their personal problems with other people, so they keep their unhappy feelings to themselves. However, talking to a doctor or psychiatrist (a doctor who knows a lot about mental problems) is helpful, as he or she may be able to suggest ways of dealing with the problem.

How ED may be treated depends on the cause. If it is caused by a disease, sometimes treating the disease will reduce the problem. For example, if a man is unable to have erections because his body does not make enough testosterone, he can be given pills to take which help his body to do so. If the blood vessels or nerves in the corpora cavernosa penis are damaged, a full cure may not be possible. However, there are some temporary treatments that allow a man to have an erection for long enough to have sex:


If a man's erection lasts for more than four hours even though he is no longer sexually excited, this is a medical problem called priapism (). The condition is named after the Greek god Priapus, whose penis was believed to always be erect (see below). Priapism is painful, and is a medical emergency because the blood stuck in the penis can become thick and form clots. This can damage the blood vessels of the penis and lead to erectile dysfunction (ED). In serious cases the tissues of the penis can die, and the penis may have to be amputated (cut off) so that the tissue death does not spread to the rest of the body.

It is not really known what causes priapism. Men who suffer from priapism sometimes have blood diseases like leukemia (a type of cancer of the blood; in the United Kingdom and some other countries it is spelled "leukaemia") or sickle-cell disease (which makes the blood cells crescent-shaped). Problems with the nervous system such as injury to the spinal cord or abnormal growths on it can also lead to priapism. Certain medicines can make priapism happen, including some used to treat ED such as alprostadil. A 2008 study suggests that too much of the chemical adenosine in the body may cause priapism since it makes blood vessels widen which lets more blood flow into the penis.

When a man with priapism is brought to the emergency department of a hospital, a doctor will usually try to remove blood from the corpora cavernosa penis by aspirating it (sucking it out) using a syringe. If this is not enough, a chemical called phenylephrine may be injected into the penis to try and make the blood vessels become narrower. If this also does not work, the doctor will make a shunt (a hole or passage) between the corpora cavernosa penis and corpus spongiosum penis. This allows blood to flow away from the corpora cavernosa penis into the corpus spongiosum penis. For men who have priapism again and again, it has been found that medicines such as sildenafil (Viagra) and tadalafil (Cialis) may help.

When an erect penis is shown in art, it is often called a phallus. Erotic (sexually exciting) art has shown phalluses for a very long time. Pictures of men with erections appear on ancient objects and in paintings.

The erect penis was also a symbol or sign of health and fertility (the ability to give life). The Hohle Fels phallus was found in a cave in Germany. It is a piece of stone carved to look like a penis that archaeologists believe is about 28,000 years old. (Archaeologists are scientists who study the past by looking for things that people have left behind.) From the fourth millennium B.C. (4000–3001 B.C.), Ancient Egyptians worshipped Min as the god of reproduction and the maker of all things. Min was shown in statues and on wall carvings as having an erect penis.

The Ancient Greeks believed in a god called Priapus who had a very large penis that was always erect. He was thought to protect livestock (animals kept by humans for food, milk, leather or wool), fruit plants and gardens, and men's sex organs. He was also seen as able to chase away evil, and as a protector of sailors, fishermen and others needing good luck. 
Long after the Roman Empire ended and many people became Christian, Priapus was still seen as a symbol of health and fertility. A 13th-century book called the "Lanercost Chronicle", which is a history of northern England and Scotland, talks about someone putting up a statue of Priapus to try and stop a disease from spreading among cattle. 

Some Native Americans in the Southwestern United States believe in a fertility god called Kokopelli who is in charge of childbirth and agriculture (the growing of plants and animals for food and other uses). He also plays tricks and is a symbol for the spirit of music. Kokopelli is sometimes shown as a man playing a flute with a humpback (a back that is bent forwards), things like feathers sticking out from his head, and a very big penis.

Today, phalluses do not often appear in artworks or movies (except in pornographic movies which show people having sex with each other). This is because many people think that showing a man's penis when it is erect is obscene (not decent).

Men with larger penises are commonly thought to be more handsome, manly and powerful. In 2006, it was reported that an Internet survey of 52,031 heterosexual (straight) men and women showed that men who thought that their penises were larger than the average size believed they were more good-looking. Of the men, 55% of them were happy with their penis size, but 45% wanted to be larger. Only 0.2% wanted a smaller penis. On the other hand, 85% of women were happy with how big their partner's penis was. Another study that also came out in 2006 in the Netherlands found that out of 251 homosexual (gay) men who were asked, most felt it was better to have a large penis, and those who thought they had one were happy about their bodies. However, just because a man has a large penis does not always mean he is sexier or stronger than other men, even though many people think this.

A lot of people also believe that men with bigger penises are better at making their partners feel good when they are having sex. For heterosexual men, this is because it is thought that when the penis can go further into the vagina, this helps the woman have a better orgasm. Scientists are not sure whether this is true or not. Some research shows that the most sensitive area of the female sex organs includes the vulva, clitoris and the part of the vagina nearest the outside of a woman's body. There are also parts of the clitoris inside the vulva and vagina. Therefore, most men's penises are long enough to make their partners feel good during sex. Also, some studies say it is not how long but how thick a penis is that decides how well it excites a woman sexually.

However, other research seems to say that a long penis that touches and sexually excites the fornix, which is the deepest part of the vagina near the cervix (the opening of the uterus into the vagina), helps a woman to have an orgasm. A study from the Netherlands of 375 women came out in 2002. This study said that although 77% of the women felt that the length of a man's penis was not important to them, quite a large number – 21% – felt it was important.

The clitoris () is part of a woman's sex organs. It makes a woman's orgasms happen, which gives her very good sexual feelings. Like a man's penis, a woman's clitoris also becomes bigger and harder when she is sexually excited. However, because the clitoris is much smaller than the penis, and most of the clitoris is inside the woman's body and cannot be seen from the outside, a clitoral erection cannot be seen as well as an erection of the penis.

An erection of the clitoris happens in the same way as an erection of the penis. The clitoris has a corpus cavernosum similar to the penis. However, instead of the corpus spongiosum it has two vestibular bulbs. When a woman is sexually excited, the corpus cavernosum and vestibular bulbs fill with blood. This causes the clitoris and other parts of the woman's sex organs to become larger, harder, and redder in colour. When this happens, they become very sensitive to being touched.

If an erection of the clitoris does not go away after a long time, even though the woman is not being made sexually excited any more, this is a medical problem called clitorism. Like priapism which can affect a man's penis, it is painful. A woman who thinks she may have clitorism should see a doctor.

The nipples of men and women can also become erect. Women's nipples become erect when they are breastfeeding (giving milk to their babies from their breasts). Men and women may also have an erection of their nipples when they are sexually excited. This is caused by the release of a hormone called oxytocin in the body. Nipples can also become erect when a person feels cold.

Unlike the penis and clitoris, nipples do not have any tissue in them that fills with blood. Instead, the body's nervous system makes muscles in the nipples contract (become shorter), causing them to stand up and become slightly harder.


</doc>
<doc id="15213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15213" title="Methamphetamine">
Methamphetamine

Methamphetamine (also called methylamphetamine, desoxyephedrine, Crystal Meth or just meth) is a man-made drug. It is a stimulant. Many people use it illegally, but it can be used legally to treat narcolepsy, Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), or obesity. When people take meth, it creates a strong feeling of euphoria (happiness) and energy. Meth is very addictive. This means that when people start taking the drug, they will want to keep taking more, even if it is making them sick. Meth users often begin to lose weight because of the loss of appetite (wanting to eat) that occurs.

Meth can be in powder or crystal form, and can be snorted, smoked, injected, or eaten. In its smokeable form, meth is known as "ice," "crystal," "crank," or "glass".

With the "snorting" method, the meth crystals are ground up and made into little lines (also called Rails) and inhaled through the nose with rolled up paper, rolled up dollar bills or an empty plastic pen tube.

In this method, the effects of meth last longer than in the smoking or injecting method. In fact, in this method, the effects of meth can last as long as twelve hours. However, the effect takes longer to feel than smoking or injecting, and there is not as strong of a "rush" (happy feeling). Snorting meth can be damaging to the nasal septum on the inside of the nose. Also, if people share the same snorting tube, they can get infections.

The crystals are placed into a pipe (called a speed pipe) or a hollowed out lightbulb and warmed up from underneath by a flame (lighter, matches etc.). The Crystal Meth is not actually "smoked" this way, but heated up until it melts. When it melts it turns into a gas that is then sucked into the user's lungs and held in. Smoking gives one of the fastest onset of the "happy feeling" and the strongest "happy" feeling. However, the vapor (gas) can damage the lungs, and smoking is more addictive than snorting or eating.

The crystal meth can be mixed with water and warmed up, then put into a needle and injected. Injecting gives one of the fastest onset of the "happy feeling" and the strongest "happy" feeling. However, it can damage the body, it is very addictive, and people can get infections from dirty needles.

If the crystal meth is eaten, it gets absorbed into the body from the digestive system

If people use meth, they may take too much and get sick or even die. This is called an overdose. Also, when people take meth, they can become aggressive. Long-term diseases include Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. In fact, a teenager taking meth can show symptoms similar to Alzheimer's.

Crystal Meth is highly addictive because of the "come down" as the drugs effect begins to wear off. Many users claim to have an uncontrollable urge to get more of the drug, after using, this effect of the drug is part of the reason methamphetamine can be so addictive. 

Sharing needles among users will increase the chance of getting infections or diseases. Getting "high" on crystal meth can also increase one's libido.

"Meth Mouth" is a term used to describe the tooth deterioration caused by smoking meth. Meth mouth destruction can be quick - a new addict can go from having healthy teeth to total tooth loss in as little as one year.

Decay starts on the cheek side of the smooth surfaces of the teeth and the areas between the front teeth.

Meth mouth is caused by many things. The vapors of meth contain several harsh chemicals (like battery acid and fertilizers) that dry out the salivary glands. This makes the mouth dry. When the mouth is dry, the number of bacteria in the mouth increases. This leads to cavities.


</doc>
<doc id="15216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15216" title="Mother">
Mother

Mother is a female parent. The mother and father are parents. A mother gives birth to the child.


"Madre" is Mother in Spanish. "Mamma" or "Mor" is Mother in Norwegian.
In teenage slang, mothers can be called "yo mama" as in "yo mama is as fat as a house" and "yo mama is a fat beast"



</doc>
<doc id="15218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15218" title="Caribbean">
Caribbean

The Caribbean or Caribbean Area (Dutch: "Cariben" or "Caraiben", French: "Caraïbe" or more commonly "Antilles"; Spanish: "Caribe") is a region of the Americas. It includes the Caribbean Sea, its islands (more than 7,000 islands, small islands and cays, most of them surrounding the sea), and the coasts of north South America and east Central America.

The Caribbean is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to its east and north, the coast of South America to its south, the coast of Central America to its southwest, and by the Gulf of Mexico to its northwest.

The West Indies is the name for the group of the islands of the Bahamas and the "Antilles". The Antilles are divided into two groups: the larger "Greater Antilles", on the north limit of the Caribbean Sea, and the "Lesser Antilles", on the east and south.

The Caribbean islands have many different types of land. Because of this, the islands have many different kinds of plants and animals, even uncommon ones.

Famous islands in the Caribbean include Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico and Hispaniola. The countries of Dominican Republic, and Haiti are on Hispaniola.
There is also a lot of white sandy beaches and hot sun there.

The name Caribbean comes from "Carib", indigenous people living in the Lesser Antilles and north South America when the Europeans came to the Americas.

The 18th century saw many countries trying to colonize the islands. Because of this, Caribbean culture is very similar to those of Africa, India, and many countries in Europe.


</doc>
<doc id="15220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15220" title="Caribbean Sea">
Caribbean Sea

The Caribbean Sea is a tropical sea in the center of the Caribbean area. The body of water is part of the Atlantic Ocean. The sea is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico. The Caribbean Sea has many islands, which are popular among North American tourists because of their tropical climate.


</doc>
<doc id="15221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15221" title="Category:Battles">
Category:Battles


</doc>
<doc id="15222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15222" title="Gibraltar">
Gibraltar

Gibraltar is an Overseas Territory of the United Kingdom. This means it shares the British King or Queen and has the protection of the British military. It lies in southwest Europe on the Mediterranean Sea. It has a population of about 28,000 people, who are called Gibraltarians.

Gibraltar has always been important as a military base because this is where the Mediterranean Sea narrows to only 14 kilometres (9 miles) at the Strait of Gibraltar. This meant that whichever country controlled Gibraltar could see all ships that came into the Mediterranean Sea. 

Gibraltar is most famous for the "The Rock of Gibraltar", a 426 meter high limestone rock rising out of the sea. The rock can be seen for many miles. It is home to the "Barbary Apes", a type of tail-less monkey which are the only wild monkey in Europe.

Gibraltar belonged to Spain between the years 1501 and 1704, and was captured by a group of Dutch and British marines during the War of the Spanish Succession (1704). In 1713, Spain signed papers called the "Treaty of Utrecht". These papers said Gibraltar would be British permanently. However, according to this treaty, if the Crown of Great Britain ever wants to leave the territory, the Crown of Spain will have a prior position in order to claim the sovereignty.

Gibraltar was very important in World War II. Since it was in such a good position, it was the perfect place for the British. In World War II the people were taken to different parts of the world like Jamaica so they could be protected from the war and also leave the Rock for the soldiers. The Rock of Gibraltar was used by these soldiers, and long tunnels were made inside it. These tunnels even had a hospital and living areas for the soldiers. 

Since 1704 when Spain lost Gibraltar, Spain began trying to get it back. They besieged the Rock several times in the 18th century. 
However, since the 1950s, Spain has tried get Gibraltar by diplomacy (international relations) by putting different kinds of pressure and restrictions on the people of Gibraltar.

In 1969 Britain gave Gibraltar a new constitution. This meant that it gave the people of Gibraltar a large amount of self-government. 

In 2002 the people of Gibraltar were asked to vote whether they wanted Spain to share Gibraltar with the United Kingdom; almost everyone voted and 98.97% said they did not. 

In 2006 Gibraltar voted to approve a new constitution which gave full self government to the people.

Spain stopped interfering with Gibraltar telephone lines and daily flights to Madrid started.



</doc>
<doc id="15223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15223" title="Windows 2000">
Windows 2000

Windows 2000 (also known as Win2K, W2K or Windows NT 5.0) is an operating system that was designed to work with computers that have either single or multiple processors. It was designed for 32-bit Intel x86 computers. It is part of the Microsoft Windows NT line of operating systems and was released on February 17, 2000. Windows 2000 comes in four versions: Professional, Server, Advanced Server, and Datacenter Server. Additionally, Microsoft offers Windows 2000 Advanced Server - Limited Edition and Datacenter Server - Limited Edition, which were released in 2001 and runs on 64-bit Intel Itanium processors. 

Windows 2000 uses two 'modes' - a 'User Mode' and a 'Kernel Mode'. The Kernel Mode is specially for hardware drivers (drivers tell the computer how to 'speak' to something) and allows drivers to 'speak' to things in the computer. The User Mode is for computer programs to run in without fear of causing harm to the computer.

All versions of Windows 2000 have things in common, including many system utilities such as the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) and standard system management applications such as a disk defragmentation utility. There is lots of support for different languages and for people with disabilities. Windows 2000 supports the Windows NT filesystem NTFS 5, the Encrypted File System (EFS), as well as basic and dynamic disk storage. Dynamic disk storage allows different types of volumes to be used (a volume is an area of storage on a hard disk that has been formatted with its own file system structure). The Windows 2000 Server version has many more features, including the ability to provide Active Directory services (a way of organising resources such as printers, users and group), a distributed file system (a file system that supports sharing of files) and fault-redundant storage volumes.

Windows 2000 can be installed and deployed to an enterprise through either an attended or unattended installation. Unattended installations rely on the use of answer files to fill in installation information, and can be performed through a bootable CD using Microsoft Systems Management Server (SMS), by the System Preparation Tool (Sysprep).

Windows 2000 was created from the Microsoft Windows NT operating system versions. It was originally called Windows NT 5 but Microsoft changed the name to Windows 2000 on October 27th, 1998. It was also the first Windows version that was released without a code name. The first software test version (also known as a beta version) for Windows 2000 was released on September 27, 1997. Several more test versions were released until Beta 3, which was released on April 29, 1999. Microsoft further issued three more test versions from between July to November 1999. They then finally released Windows 2000 to partners on December 12, 1999 . The public received the full version of Windows 2000 on February 17, 2000 and the press immediately called it the most stable operating system Microsoft had ever released. Novell (a competitor of Microsoft) did not think that Microsoft's new directory service product (part of Windows 2000) was as good as their own Novell Directory Services (NDS) technology . On September 29, 2000, Microsoft released Windows 2000 Datacenter. Microsoft released Service Pack 1 (SP1) on August 15, 2000, Service Pack 2 (SP2) on May 16, 2001, Service Pack 3 (SP3) on August 29, 2002 and its last Service Pack (SP4) on June 26, 2003. Microsoft has said that they will not release a Service Pack 5, but instead, have offered an "Update Rollup" for Service Pack 4. Microsoft stopped developing their Java Virtual Machine (JVM) for Windows 2000 in Service Pack 3.

Microsoft has replaced Windows 2000 Server products with Windows Server 2003, and Windows 2000 Professional with Windows XP Professional. Windows Neptune started development in 1999, and was supposed to be the home-user edition of Windows 2000. However, the project took a long time to create and only one pre-test (alpha version) release was created. Windows Me was released instead and the Neptune project was incorporated into the development of Windows XP. The only elements of the Windows project which were included in Windows 2000 were the ability to upgrade from Windows 95 or Windows 98, and support for the FAT32 file system.

Several notable security flaws have been found in Windows 2000. Code Red and Code Red II were famous computer worms that used problems with indexing service of Windows 2000's Internet Information Services (IIS) to caused a security problem. In August 2003, two major worms named the Sobig worm and the Blaster worm began to attack millions of Microsoft Windows computers and caused many problems for system administrators and computer operators who used Windows 2000. This was very embarrassing for Microsoft, and caused many corporations and governments to look carefully at Microsoft's security problems. 




</doc>
<doc id="15224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15224" title="Junior Certificate">
Junior Certificate

The Junior Certificate is earned by passing a required exam that takes place in secondary schools in the Republic of Ireland. 

The exams take place every June, with English always the first exam. For example, the English exam took place on June 8 this year (2005). Exams usually end with the subjects that the fewest people take. For example, Italian took place on June 24 this year (2005).

Three exams must be passed in order to receive a certificate: They are English, Mathematics, and Irish. If a student has not lived in Ireland for at least seven years before the exam, he is not required to sit for the Irish exam. A student may then take 3-6 other subjects to get his certifcate.

The results of the exams are given in mid-September.


</doc>
<doc id="15225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15225" title="Leaving Certificate">
Leaving Certificate

The Leaving Certificate is the final exam taken place in the Republic of Ireland secondary school education system. To do the leaving cert, the Junior Certificate exams need to be done first. 

As the Junior Certificate, Maths, English, and Irish (That is, if Irish was done for the Junior Cert) are compulsory. For the Leaving Cert, at least six subjects need to be done. Any exam may be done either in a Higher or Ordinary level. Irish and Mathematics offer a 'Foundation' level. Foundation level is where the exams just asks about the most basic teaching on the course, for those who have a hard time doing that particular subject.

The results are given out in the middle of August. A leaving certificate is required in order to go on to college or university.


</doc>
<doc id="15226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15226" title="Empire">
Empire

An empire is a set of lands or regions that are ruled by an emperor. Usually the emperor will have governors, viceroys or client kings who each rule one land or region. An empire will usually also have many different cultures.

Well-known empires include the Persian Empire, the Roman Empire, the Russian Empire, the Ottoman Empire, and the British Empire. 

Today the only monarch to use the title "emperor" is the Emperor of Japan, although his power is mostly ceremonial.


</doc>
<doc id="15228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15228" title="Writer">
Writer

A writer can mean anyone who makes a written work or a writing, but the word more usually means people who write creatively or as a job, or those who have written in many different forms. Skilled writers demonstrate skills in using language to portray certain ideas and images, whether in fiction or non-fiction.


This list is only a few examples of the many types of writing there are.



</doc>
<doc id="15229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15229" title="Inventor">
Inventor

An inventor is a person who makes new inventions ((lifetime)devices), mostly new products that can be electrical, mechanical, or software. Someone that invents new ideas or methods on how to do things may also be called an inventor.

Many inventors make small changes to old inventions. For example, people have invented new ways to make clocks over history. Early clocks were sundials, later clocks used water. Later still, clocks used falling weights with escapements, devices like pendulums to stop the weight falling too fast. Modern clocks are often electronic.



</doc>
<doc id="15230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15230" title="Bear">
Bear

"For other uses of the word "bear", please see Bear (disambiguation)"

Bears are a group of large mammals. They form the family Ursidae, in the suborder Caniformia of the order Carnivora. There are 9 living bear species.


Bears usually have a big body with short and thick legs. They only have a very short tail. They have small eyes and round ears. They usually have longer, shaggy fur. On each foot they have five claws, which they cannot pull back. They have very good senses of smell and hearing. They can stand up on their back legs. Usually bears can climb and swim very well.

They are mostly active at night (except for the Polar Bear). Some bears hibernate, that means they sleep during the winter to save energy.

Bears are usually omnivorous, which means that they eat plants and meat. They eat berries, grass and fish. An exception is the polar bear, which eats mostly meat.



</doc>
<doc id="15231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15231" title="Meteorology">
Meteorology

Meteorology is a branch of atmospheric physics that focuses on air pressure, the climate, temperature and weather prediction. People who practice meteorology are called meteorologists. It is also a major branch of earth science.


</doc>
<doc id="15232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15232" title="Technology">
Technology

Depending on when the word technology is used, technology is:




</doc>
<doc id="15233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15233" title="Wonders of the World">
Wonders of the World

The Seven Wonders of the World (or the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World) is a widely-known list of seven great buildings or structures from the classical time period.

This is a list put together in the second century BC by 
Antipater of Sidon and Philon of Byzantium. This explains why it only lists monuments of the Mediterranean world. There are other slightly different version: this is the most usual one.


Out of those structures only the Great Pyramid still exists in the 21st century. Most of the wonders were built by the Greeks. Earlier versions listed the Walls of Babylon and the Palace of Cyrus the Great.

The Seven Wonders of the Modern World were decided by the American Society of Civil Engineers. However, some other variations of the list exist (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonders_of_the_world for more).

They are:


Like with the other lists of wonders, there is no single list of seven natural wonders of the world, as there have been arguments over how large the list should be. One of the many lists was compiled by CNN.




</doc>
<doc id="15234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15234" title="Illness">
Illness

An illness (sometimes called ill-health or ail) is when a person has poor health.
Most illnesses are bad because they usually kill or damage parts of a body. Many illnesses are caused by disease or disorders.


</doc>
<doc id="15236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15236" title="Daughter">
Daughter

A daughter is the female child of a mother and father. The opposite of a daughter is a son. A daughter would be a sister, if she has siblings.

Daughter is also used informally to mean "junior". For example, in the Church of England, a parish with more than one church is sometimes said to have a mother church, which is the main parish church, and a daughter church.



</doc>
<doc id="15237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15237" title="Son">
Son

A son is the male child of a mother and father. The opposite of a son is a daughter. If the child has siblings then the son is a brother.


</doc>
<doc id="15241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15241" title="1516">
1516



</doc>
<doc id="15242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15242" title="Category:Fish">
Category:Fish

Fish are vertebrate animals that live in the water.


</doc>
<doc id="15243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15243" title="Oliver Stone">
Oliver Stone

William Oliver Stone (born September 15, 1946) is an American filmmaker.


</doc>
<doc id="15244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15244" title="Whale shark">
Whale shark

The whale shark, "Rhincodon typus", is a slow-moving filter feeding shark, the largest living fish species. 

The largest confirmed individual was in length. The heaviest weighed more than . Unconfirmed claims report larger individuals. 

This distinctively-marked fish is the only member of its genus "Rhincodon" and its family, Rhincodontidae. It belongs to the subclass Elasmobranchii in the class Chondrichthyes. 

The shark is found in tropical and warm oceans and has a lifespan of about 70 years. 

Although whale sharks have very large mouths, they feed mainly on plankton, microscopic plants and animals. The BBC program "Planet Earth" filmed a whale shark feeding on a school of small fish.

The species was discovered in April 1828, following the harpooning of a 4.6 metre specimen in Table Bay, South Africa. Andrew Smith, a military doctor with British troops stationed in Cape Town described it the next year. He published a more detailed description in 1849. The name "whale shark" comes from the fish's physiology; as large as a whale, it too is a filter feeder.



</doc>
<doc id="15245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15245" title="Qatar">
Qatar

Qatar is a country in the Middle East. Its official name is the State of Qatar.

Qatar is a peninsula (a strip of land sticking out into the sea). It is joined to Saudi Arabia to the south, and all the other sides of it are surrounded by the waters of the Arabian Gulf.

Qatar is quite a small country and has an area of only 10,360 km². The peninsula is 160 km long. 

The capital of Qatar is Doha.

People from Qatar are called Qataris. They are Arabs. The official language of Qatar is Arabic, but many people also speak English, especially when they are doing business.

About 885,000 people live in Qatar; however, about 80% of these are "guest workers" (people from another country who are living and working there for a short time).

Nearly all of Qatar's economy comes from producing petroleum and natural gas.

The currency of Qatar is called the Qatari Riyal.

Almost all Qataris follow the religion of Islam. However, many of the guest workers follow other religions.


</doc>
<doc id="15247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15247" title="Salt water">
Salt water

Salt water (or salt-water or saltwater) most often means the water from the seas and oceans. This type of water is also called sea water.

Salt water used for making or preserving food is usually called brine.

When scientists measure salt in water, they usually say they are testing the salinity of the water: salinity is measured in "parts per thousand" or "ppt".



</doc>
<doc id="15248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15248" title="Oceanography">
Oceanography

Oceanography (also called oceanology or marine science) is the study of how the ocean works. A person who studies how the ocean works is called an oceanographer.

The study of oceanography may be divide branches:


</doc>
<doc id="15250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15250" title="Diamanto Manolakou">
Diamanto Manolakou

Diamanto Manolakou, born on 1 March 1959, is a Greek politician and member of the European Parliament for the Communist Party of Greece; part of the European United Left–Nordic Green Left.


</doc>
<doc id="15252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15252" title="Arthur C. Clarke">
Arthur C. Clarke

Sir Arthur Charles Clarke (Minehead, Somerset, 6 December 1917 – Colombo, Sri Lanka, 19 March, 2008) was a British author and inventor. He was most famous for his science fiction novel "", and for working with director Stanley Kubrick on the film of the same name. Clarke and Isaac Asimov were probably the two best-known science fiction writers of their day.

Clarke served in the Royal Air Force as a radar instructor and technician from 1941–1946. He proposed a satellite communication system in 1945 which won him the Franklin Institute Gold Medal in 1963. He was the chairman of the British Interplanetary Society from 1947–1950 and again in 1953.

Clarke emigrated to Sri Lanka in 1956 largely to pursue his interest in scuba diving; that year, he discovered the underwater ruins of the ancient Koneswaram temple in Trincomalee. He lived in Sri Lanka until his death. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1998, and was awarded Sri Lanka's highest civil honour, Sri Lankabhimanya, in 2005.

Arthur C. Clarke Award



</doc>
<doc id="15253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15253" title="Anthony Burgess">
Anthony Burgess

Anthony Burgess (1917 – 1993) was an Englishman who wrote many long stories, called novels.

One of these was named "A Clockwork Orange". It was about Evil. He had the idea for the story after a group of bad young men attacked and beat his wife for no reason.

Burgess also made songs and music. And he wrote a lot about writers he loved, such as James Joyce, a novelist, and Gerard Manley Hopkins, a poet.

Burgess was born in the city of Manchester, in the north of England. Before he became a writer, he was a soldier, then a teacher. When he was 37 years old, he left his home country to work in Malaysia and Brunei. Later, he lived in the USA, Italy, and France.

He was born very poor, the son of a man who made a meagre living out of selling cigarettes to workmen. But when Burgess died, he had grown rich. This was because he worked so hard at his art, which is the art of literature. He wrote at least 1,000 words every day of his life. But he always found time to be kind to other writers. He was friendly to the many people who came to visit with him at his seaside home in Monaco.

The books by Burgess that people say they like the most are called "Earthly Powers", about the Pope; "Enderby", about a poet; and "Nothing Like the Sun", about William Shakespeare.


</doc>
<doc id="15254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15254" title="Rape">
Rape

Rape is having sexual intercourse with a person who does not want to, or cannot consent. Consent is when someone agrees of their own choice without being forced to. Rape is a form of sexual assault. In most countries, rape is a serious crime. A person who rapes someone is a rapist. Rapists may use violence, drugs, or threats to get their way.

A person may be unable to consent (say yes to) to sexual intercourse or other sexual activity. Having sex with a person who cannot consent is rape.


Some adults are unable to consent to sex.


Rape is a medical emergency. People who are raped may be injured or have a sexually transmitted disease (STD). People may not know they are hurt or sick. Doctors can give medicine to treat an STD. HIV, an STD, can be prevented by early treatment. If seen quickly, a doctor can give medication called emergency contraception to prevent pregnancy. 

At the hospital police can collect evidence from the victim and his/her clothing. Evidence may help find the rapist, and can help him/her go to jail. Waiting too long makes it hard to collect evidence. Also, taking a shower before telling the police or going to a hospital can wash off some of the DNA evidence.

Victims of rape may feel scared or sad, or even guilty. They may think about the rape a lot, even when they do not want to. They may have nightmares about the rape. Many have post-traumatic stress disorder. Talking to someone, like a counselor, can help. Sometimes doctors can give medicine to decrease fear and sadness. Calling a rape crisis center or hotline can help a victim find help.



</doc>
<doc id="15255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15255" title="Emmet D. Boyle">
Emmet D. Boyle

Emmet Derby Boyle (July 26, 1879 - January 3, 1926) was a Governor of Nevada. He was a Democrat.

Boyle was born in Virginia City, Nevada in 1879. He was a mining engineer, and was the Governor between 1915 and 1923. He died in 1926 at the age of 46.


</doc>
<doc id="15256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15256" title="Carp">
Carp

The Carp is a fish that lives in fresh water, such as rivers and lakes. In Europe and Asia carp are loved as a fishing and eating fish. However, carp are a really big problem in countries such as the U.S. and Australia. They cause the mud at the bottom of the river to move and in these countries people hate them.

Carp have been a source of food to humans, as well as popular ornamental fishes like the koi and goldfish. 




</doc>
<doc id="15257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15257" title="Christopher Walken">
Christopher Walken

Ronald Walken (born March 31, 1943), as an actor he is known as Christopher Walken, is an American movie, television, and theatre actor. He is best known for playing evil or mentally damaged characters. He has sometimes used that image for comedic effect. He was born in Queens, New York to a German father and Scottish-born mother. Walken has been married to casting director Georgianne Walken since 1969.

Walken is a skilled dancer who in many of his movies dances, because he requests it. He has been in nearly one hundred movies and television shows since 1953, including "The Dead Zone" (1983), "Brainstorm" (1983), "A View to a Kill" (1985), "Batman Returns" (1992) "True Romance" (1993), "Pulp Fiction" (1994), "Nick of Time" (1995), "Catch Me If You Can" (2002) and "Around the Bend" (2004). He was George Lucas' second choice for Han Solo after Harrison Ford.

He won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor in "The Deer Hunter" (1978) where he played a disturbed Vietnam veteran with Robert De Niro. He was nominated again in 2002 for "Catch Me if You Can". 

Walken has been guest host on Saturday Night Live many times, and has played many well known characters on that show.



</doc>
<doc id="15258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15258" title="Template:Wikiquote-en">
Template:Wikiquote-en


</doc>
<doc id="15261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15261" title="Gene Hackman">
Gene Hackman

Eugene Alden Hackman (born January 30, 1930) is a retired American actor. Hackman was born in San Bernardino, California. His parents divorced while he was a child, and he moved from one place to another until he settled finally in Danville, Illinois, where he lived with his English-born grandmother. At the age of 16 he left home to join the Marines, where he served 3 years as a radio operator. Having finished his service, he moved to New York, where he worked in several minor jobs. He then studied television production and journalism at the University of Illinois.

Already over 30 years old, Hackman decided to become an actor, and joined the Pasadena Playhouse in California. It was in that school that Hackman became friends with another person who wanted to be an actor named Dustin Hoffman.

After working hard in many roles he became a well-respected actor. He has won a few Academy Awards, and has played many well-known roles.




</doc>
<doc id="15264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15264" title="Brian Russell">
Brian Russell

Brian Russell (born February 5, 1978) is an American music producer. He is the former husband of musician Brenda Russell. He is currently married to Cheryl Ladd.


</doc>
<doc id="15266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15266" title="Cod">
Cod

Cod is a teleost fish that lives in the ocean, where it is one of the larger predators. There are different types of cod. Cod is an important type of fish for professional fishing. It is also popular to eat, because it is mild in taste. The livers of cods are processed to get cod liver oil. Along with Haddock and Plaice, cod is a very common fish to use for Fish and Chips.

Cod has been traded about since the period of the Vikings.


</doc>
<doc id="15267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15267" title="U.S. 1st Infantry Division">
U.S. 1st Infantry Division

The 1st Infantry Division of the United States Army—nicknamed the "Big Red One" after its shoulder patch—is the oldest division. Since the Division was made, it has served in almost all wars the American Army has been in. The division's official motto is "Duty First". Their unofficial motto is "No Mission Too Difficult, No Sacrifice Too Great".



</doc>
<doc id="15270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15270" title="Charles Manson">
Charles Manson

Charles Milles Manson (born on November 12, 1934) is an American leader of a cult of people who murdered other people. This was in the late 1960s and early 1970s.

An interview was been conducted with Charles Manson which was the top story in the August 6, 2009 issue of Thursday Night Magazine.

His cult was known as "The Family". The members were young men and women. He made them believe his end of the world vision. Even now, he controls some of the ex-members. 

He planned and ordered the Family to commit several brutal murders. Most known is the murder by his followers on August 8, 1969 of movie actress Sharon Tate. She was expecting a baby, already seven/eight months. The same night they also murdered Steven Parent, a friend of the groundskeeper at the house; Jay Sebring, a hair stylist; Abigail Folger, an heiress and social worker; and Wojciech Frykowski; a Polish writer and actor. 

The next night, Manson and some of his followers murdered Leno La Bianca, a grocery store owner and his wife Rosemary. Manson and his followers were arrested, for stealing cars, but soon it was found out that they were the ones who committed the murders. 

Manson is now in jail for life in California. He and four Family members were sentenced to death, but the death penalty was abolished in California shortly after that. Because of his violent and crazy behavior, the chance is small that he will ever be free from prison.

Manson released an album entitled ""Lie: The Love and Terror Cult"", it features Manson's music and all profits of the 2006 revived ESP-Disk label version would go to the family of Wojciech Frykowski. Allmusic rated the album 4 out of 5 stars.


</doc>
<doc id="15271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15271" title="Herring">
Herring

A herring is a small teleost fish of the genus "Cluptea". Best-known of this family is probably the Atlantic Herring. There are 15 different species of herring. When herrings migrate in the water they usually do this in large numbers; this is then called a "school" of herring. Like other fish, they do this for protection: see shoaling and schooling. 

Herrings can be eaten. Usual ways to make food from herring is to smoke or pickle it. 

A red herring is used to describe a plot device in mystery fiction that leads the reader to a wrong solution.


</doc>
<doc id="15275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15275" title="Ray">
Ray

The rays are a group of Batoid cartilaginous fish containing more than 500 described species in thirteen families. The batoids include four orders. 

They are mostly flattened in shape, and usually demersal, living and eating at the bottom of the sea. The group first appears in the Triassic period, after 95% of marine species had been wiped out by the P/Tr extinction event.


Rays look like bats in the water, and this is probably why they are called batoids. They have pectoral fins that are attached to their bodies from back to front, similar to the way a bat's wings attach from its shoulder to its feet. 

The fins of the ray create a disk shape that can be round, triangular, or diamond-shaped. Rays use their pectoral fins to fly through the water. Though a bony fish takes in water with its mouth, rays do not because they live at the bottom of the ocean. If they took in water through their mouths, they would probably just get a mouthful of sand. Because of this, they have breathing holes on top of their bodies called "spiracles". Rays use spiracles to take in water that is then sent over the gills. 

Also, because they do not have a swim bladder, rays sink when they are not actively swimming.

Interestingly, rays are usually curious and social animals. Though they often live alone, they like swimming together in groups with other rays. Despite the fact that they are able to swim, most rays live at the bottom of the sea, eating benthic animals. In fact, they often flick sand on their backs to camouflage (disguise, or hide) themselves as they lie in the sand at the bottom of the ocean.


</doc>
<doc id="15276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15276" title="Tuna">
Tuna

Tuna, sometimes called tunafish, are several species (kinds) of fish. They are in the family Scombridae, mostly in the genus Thunnus.
Tuna are fast swimmers. People have seen tuna swim at up to 77km/h. Several species of tuna are warm-blooded. Most species of fish have white flesh. The flesh of the tuna is different. It is pink to dark red. This is because tuna muscle tissue contains greater quantities of myoglobin. Myoglobin is a molecule that binds oxygen. Some of the larger tuna species such as the Northern bluefin tuna can raise their blood temperature above the water temperature with muscular activity. This enables them to live in cooler waters and survive a wider range of circumstances.

Tuna is an important commercial fish. Some varieties of tuna, such as the bluefin and bigeye tuna are threatened by overfishing, dramatically affecting tuna populations in the Atlantic and northwestern Pacific Oceans. Other populations seem to support fairly healthy fisheries (for example, the central and western Pacific skipjack tuna), but there is mounting evidence that overfishing threatens tuna fisheries world-wide.

Some fishermen in Australia now grow Southern bluefin tuna in fish farms. Fish farms are areas of water with nets around them, where farmers raise (keep and grow animals) fish. Some tuna farms are circular nets forty meters in diameter and twenty meters deep. The fishermen catch the tuna at sea, and then they keep the tuna in these farms. The tuna grow and get fatter for from three to six months. There are also tuna farms in the Mediterranean, North America, and Japan that raise Northern bluefin tuna. Some environmental groups say that tuna farms use too much fish as food for the tuna, and that the farms pollute the water (make the water dirty).

Tuna are high up in the food chain. They eat animals that ate animals. Their diet leads to the accumulation of heavy metals in their flesh. Mercury levels can be relatively high in some of the larger species of tuna such as bluefin and albacore. As a result, in March 2004 the United States FDA issued guidelines recommending pregnant women, nursing mothers, and children to limit their intake of tuna and other types of predatory fish . However, most canned light tuna is skipjack tuna and is very low in mercury. 

Sport fishermen like to catch tuna using rods and hooks.

There are eight species:

Species of several other genera (all in the family Scombridae) have common names containing "tuna":

"Tuna" is also a name for the sweet fruit of prickly pear cactuses in the genus "Opuntia".



</doc>
<doc id="15279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15279" title="Fishing hook">
Fishing hook

Fishing hook is a hook used to catch fish. There are many types of fishing hooks. Most have a sharp point which sticks into the fish when it is caught. There are lots of types of fishing hooks, and they all depend on how powerful they can hold the line and the size.

Many hooks have different sizes for different fish.


</doc>
<doc id="15281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15281" title="Fishing rod">
Fishing rod

A fishing rod is a tool used for catching fish. This is the way people catch fish for fun or sport; commercial fishing is usually done using fishing nets.

A fishing rod is basically a line with bait on it, fixed on a pole. There is usually some way to make the line longer or shorter, and the pole it is fixed on can bend a little.


</doc>
<doc id="15282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15282" title="Mammalia (taxonomy)">
Mammalia (taxonomy)

"See Mammals for more info"



</doc>
<doc id="15290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15290" title="Nottuln">
Nottuln

Nottuln is a village, 20 km of Münster, Germany.

It consists of

A church was founded in 860 by Ludger Liudger, as well as the first monastery in Westphalia.
After a big fire 1748 it was built up by Johann Conrad Schlaun.
The county of Nottuln is at the A43 and a railway.


</doc>
<doc id="15291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15291" title="Coesfeld">
Coesfeld

Coesfeld is a town in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany and the capital of the Coesfeld county.

Nepomucenum and St.-Pius-Gymnasium are highschools in Coesfeld.

Coesfeld was founded by the holy Ludgerus. Coesfeld has been a town since 1197.

Big villages in county Coesfeld:


</doc>
<doc id="15292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15292" title="St.-Pius-Gymnasium">
St.-Pius-Gymnasium

St.-Pius-Gymnasium is a catholic private highschool in Coesfeld near Münster in Germany. It is held by the diocese of Münster and named after Pope Pius X. . Until 1976 the school was a boarding school only for boys. Since then it has been a "Gymnasium". Today, there are 791 pupils.

There is a statue of Pius X on the school ground to express solidarity with the patron. The school has a chapel and a pastor. There is a modern, well-equipped assembly hall, too.

St.-Pius-Gymnasium is associated with the Lyceé Notre-Dame in Guingamp (France), offers trips to Poole (England) and tries to establish a partnership with a school in Orlando (Florida, USA). 

In Advent, the school publishes a yearbook named "Piusbrief". Its pupil magazine "Fünf vor Acht" got multiple honours. 

The whole school is a non-smoking area.


</doc>
<doc id="15293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15293" title="Cell membrane">
Cell membrane

The cell membrane is a thin flexible layer around the cells of all living things. It is sometimes called the "plasma membrane". 

Its basic job is to separate the inside from the outside.
In all cells, the cell membrane separates the protoplasm inside the cell from its surroundings. In animal cells, that is all there is. Bacteria, fungi and plants have cell walls as well, which support the cell and block the passage of large molecules.

The membrane is made up of a thin layer called the 'phospholipid bilayer'. This has two layers of phospholipid molecules with phosphate heads on the surfaces and lipid (oil) tails on the inside. The outside heads mix with water, but the tails reject water.

Other proteins and lipids can be added to the cell membrane. By these changes, the cell can adjust what it brings in or puts out. Some proteins are always stuck into it, these are called "integral" membrane proteins. It also has some which are only sometimes stuck onto it. These are called peripheral membrane proteins.

The cell membrane is active, and regulates (adjusts) what comes in and what goes out of the cell. The movement of substances across the membrane can be either "passive", occurring without the input of cellular energy, or "active", requiring energy. 

Proteins within the membrane are key to its working. These proteins mainly transport chemicals and information across the membrane. 

The membrane contains many proteins. The surface proteins can act as gates. They let some chemicals into the cell and let other chemicals leave the cell. It is estimated that up to a third of the human proteome may be membrane proteins. Some of these proteins are linked to the exterior of the cell membrane. An example of this is the CD59 protein, which identifies cells as “self” and thus inhibits their destruction by the immune system.


</doc>
<doc id="15294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15294" title="Morocco">
Morocco

Morocco is a country in north Africa. Its official name is the Kingdom of Morocco.

Morocco is a constitutional monarchy. However, most of the political powers are in the hands of king Muhammad VI (the sixth). He is the head of state (Person in charge of the country) and the most important person. His authority is unquestionable (nobody can say no to him). 

The people of Morocco vote for Members of Parliament to speak for them and to help make laws for them. The king defines what must be done and gives orders to all the ministers and the army officers. He makes all the important decisions but he leaves the small details to the ministers and the low-ranking officers. The second most important person in Morocco is the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the government, although he received orders from the king as well. Today, the Prime Minister is Abbas AlFassi. He was chosen by the king after the elections.

Morocco is next to the countries of Algeria to its east and Western Sahara to its south. The Mediterranean Sea lies to the north of Morocco, and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.

Morocco has a diverse geography from fertile plains, to forests, cold mountains, dry lands, and deserts. Most people live in areas close to the coast, or in fertile farms. Morocco has an area of 446,550 km². Morocco also controls most of the Western Sahara which is 266.000 km² big.

The capital of Morocco is Rabat. About 1.2 million people live in Rabat. The biggest city in Morocco is however Casablanca, with nearly 4 million people living there. Both Rabat and Casablanca have large ports and industrial zones. The third biggest city is Marrakesh from which the word "Morocco" is made.

The population of Morocco is about 34 million. People from Morocco are called Moroccans. Moroccans are essentially Berbers just like their neighbors: the Algerians and Libyans. Although, many of the Moroccans have Arab, Spanish, black African, and Jewish ancestors. 

The official language of Morocco is Arabic, but millions of Moroccans also speak the Berber language and want it to be official too. French is also used, but only in big companies, universities, and in some TV channels. Morocco used to be occupied by France for 44 years. Some people in the north (close to Spain) speak Spanish as well. Spain also occupied parts of Morocco before leaving them in 1956 and in 1975.

Most educated Moroccans do not speak English well, or do not know it at all. But since recent years, English is being taught to students in an increasing number of schools.

Most Moroccans follow Islam as their religion. There are very small numbers of Christians, Jews, and non-believers.

Mining, agriculture, fishing, and tourism are the 4 main parts of Morocco's national economy. Also, Moroccans working in Europe (about 2 million) send billions of Euros of money home to their families every year. 

Tourism is becoming very important too. Many Americans and Europeans come to see the historical places of Morocco, live the Berber countryside life, or enjoy the warm sun and the long and clean beaches. Marrakesh is the most liked city by tourists.

The currency of Morocco is called the Dirham, its code is MAD.

<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="15295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15295" title="Andrew Johnson">
Andrew Johnson

Andrew Johnson (December 29, 1808 – July 31, 1875) was the 16th Vice-President and 17th President of the United States. Before becoming Vice-President, he was a Governor and U.S. Senator from Tennessee. When Tennessee and ten other Southern slave states declared they were no longer part of the United States, he was the only member from such a state to not quit his seat in the U.S. Congress. A southern Democrat, he was elected as Abraham Lincoln's vice-president on a "National Union" ticket in 1864. He became president in 1865 after Abraham Lincoln was killed. Congress was then run by Republicans, and after Lincoln's assassination, they wanted stricter terms than Johnson did for the Reconstruction of the Southern states that had rebelled. As a result, he vetoed 29 bills passed by Congress, and is the president to have the most vetoes overridden (15) by Congress. He was also the first President to be impeached, but was later acquitted by one vote, and finished the rest of his term. The only U.S. president never to have gone to school, he was later taught to read by his wife, Eliza McCardle Johnson. The U.S. purchased Alaska from Russia for $7.2 million (the price was 2 cents per acre) while he was president.



</doc>
<doc id="15296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15296" title="1808">
1808



</doc>
<doc id="15297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15297" title="Starfish">
Starfish

Starfish, or Sea stars, are Echinoderms, and belong to the Class Asteroidea.

All of them live in the ocean, on the sea floor. Some live in deep water, others in shallow water. Some live in the intertidal zone, between low and high tide. They have five or more arms and can be quite large. The Sunflower sea star ("Pycnopodia helianthoides") is the largest: fully grown, its arm-span is about a metre. This is a bit larger than the famous Crown-of-thorns starfish, which lives on coral polyps.

Although starfish are invertebrates, they do have a kind of skeleton. The bodies of starfish are composed of calcium carbonate plates, known as 'ossicles'. These form the endoskeleton, which takes on a variety of forms such as spines and granules. 

They have a primitive nervous system, but not a brain. They also do not have blood, instead they use sea water to pump things around their bodies.

There are over 1500 different species of sea star. All of them live in salt water, usually on the floor of the ocean. Most sea stars are predators. They eat mussels, clams, and other bivalves. Occasionally, they might even catch small fish which are unable to get away from their attack.

Most starfish have five arms, called "rays" that come out from a center circle (disk). If a starfish has more than five rays, it will often have rays in multiples of five; there could be 10, 15, 20, or even 30 rays on one starfish . This is called pentameral (five-fold) symmetry.

The degree of protection offered by the skeleton differs between species. If the skeleton becomes more rigid, it offers better protection against predators. However, this will tend to limit its feeding alternatives. Great flexibility is required for the process of external digestion used by many species to eat bivalves. The less well armoured species may adopt a life in places where they are not so open to predation. The heavily armoured ones can tough it out in the most competitive habitats:

The movement of starfish is guided by their senses of touch and sight. There are five 'eyes', light-sensitive cushions, one at the end of each arm. These and the tube feet are connected to nerve fibres, so these animals are more complex than first believed.

Although starfish started off as filter-feeders, they evolved to become major predators of shell-fish (the brachiopods and bivalves). They can also eat small crustacea and fish. Their tube feet developed suckers, perhaps originally to improve movement. Later, they were used to open shell-fish.

The shells of brachiopods and bivalves are held together by strong muscles. What the starfish does is clamp hold of them on either side with its tube feet, and apply a steady pull. The starfish, with its muscles and hydraulic system, can pull for much longer than any bivalve muscle can withstand. Apparently, ten minutes are usually enough to open the shell a bit. Then the starfish slips its stomach inside the shell. The stomach can get through a slot as narrow as 0.1mm. The starfish then dissolves the mollusc where it lives, absorbing the nutrients. This digestion process takes much longer than opening the shell, perhaps a couple of days.

Sometimes species swallow the shell whole, and dissolves the contents inside their stomach, then push out the shell afterwards.

This ability of starfish appeared to develop in the Mesozoic, especially in the Jurassic and Cretaceous. This was part of the "Mesozoic Marine Revolution", which transformed the sea-floor fauna. Weakly defended and static types disappeared, and more heavily armoured or more mobile shellfish flourished.

Starfish, like many sea creatures, are able to "regenerate" (grow back) parts of their bodies. Starfish are better at regeneration than most other creatures. Not only can a new ray grow when a ray is torn off, but if the torn off ray has even a small piece of the central disk still attached, a whole new starfish can grow from the one ray.

Because starfish like to eat clams and oysters, fishermen who gather shellfish have tried for years to get rid of them. To kill the starfish, fishermen would catch them, slice them right in half, and throw them back in the ocean. However, because starfish can grow back parts of their bodies, they were actually increasing the number of starfish.



</doc>
<doc id="15298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15298" title="1582">
1582

Gregorian calendar switch: The year 1582 (MDLXXXII) involved conversion to the Gregorian calendar. It had only 355 days. It began as a common year starting on Monday, in accordance with the Julian calendar. It continued as normal through Thursday, October 4. But the next day, it became October 15 (like a common year starting on Friday) in Italy, Poland, Portugal, and Spain. Other countries continued to use the Julian calendar, switching over to the Gregorian in later years. 



</doc>
<doc id="15300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15300" title="Jellyfish">
Jellyfish

Jellyfish are animals of the phylum Cnidaria. They eat small sea animals like plankton and float in the sea. Only a few jellyfish live in fresh water. 

They have soft bodies and long, stinging, poisonous tentacles that they use to catch fish. Venom is injected by stinging cells called "nematocysts". A jellyfish is 98% water.

Their bodies are made of 98% water. A jellyfish has a bell-shaped body and long tentacles at the underside of the body. Tentacles are long "arms" with special stinging cells called nematocysts. They move by contracting moves of their bell, but they cannot decide where to go on their own. Most of the time, they drift with the water current. The most common type of jellyfish is a Lions Mane Jellyfish. These jellyfish have tentacles that can be as long as 60 meters.

Jellyfish occur in four of the Cnidarian classes:
These four classes are sometimes linked as the sub-phylum Medusozoa.

There are many types of jellyfish. The smallest jellyfish are just a few inches across. The largest jellyfish is the Lion's mane ("Cyanea capillata"), whose body can be over 3 feet (1 m) across, with much longer tentacles. Some jellyfish in the dark (this is called phosphorescence). Some of the most dangerous jelly fish include the box jelly (Genuses "Chironex", "Chiropsalmus" and "Carybdea") and the tiny, two-cm-across Irukandji jelly ("Carukia barnesi"); the venomous sting of these jellyfish can kill a person.

Many animals eat jellyfish, including sea turtles and some fish (including the sun fish).
Most jellyfish undergo two distinct life history stages (body forms) during their life cycle. The first is the polypoid stage, when the animal takes the form of a small stalk with feeding tentacles; this polyp may be unable to move around, living on the bottom of the ocean or it may be free-floating. Polyps generally have a mouth surrounded by upward-facing tentacles. Polyps may be on their own or in groups, and some bud asexually by various means, making more polyps. Most are very small, measured in millimeters.

In the second stage, the tiny polyps asexually produce jellyfish, each of which is also known as a medusa. Tiny jellyfish swim away from the polyp and then grow and feed in the plankton. Medusae have a radially symmetric, umbrella-shaped body called a bell, which is usually supplied with marginal tentacles that capture prey. A few species of jellyfish do not have the polyp portion of the life cycle, but go from jellyfish to the next generation of jellyfish through direct development of fertilized eggs.

Jellyfish eat plankton and little fish, which are caught by their poisonous tentacles. Jellyfish may live in symbiosis with algae. The jellyfish transports them into sunlight and get nutrients from the algae's photosynthesis. Both forms of jelly fish have small tentacles with nematocysts (stinging cells) that sting and can hurt people on contact.


</doc>
<doc id="15301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15301" title="Tilapia">
Tilapia

Tilapia is a fish that is often farmed for food, or kept as pets in aquariums. They live in warm, fresh water, but some species live in brackish water. The fish are found in Africa, North and South America, India, and Sri Lanka.

They are listed as one of the worlds worst introduced species. They can quickly take over from native fish in rivers. This has happened in places like in the Endeavour River, in Queensland, Australia. These fish are thought to have been released into the river from an aquarium.


</doc>
<doc id="15302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15302" title="Sardine">
Sardine

Sardine is a name of several kinds of fish, especially oily fish. Another name for these fish is Pilchard. All of those fish are quite small and are related to the herring. The Latin name of the family of these fish is Clupeidae. However, the naming is not precise. Fishbase, a database about all kinds of fish, has six species just named "pilchard". There are over a dozen with the name of "sardine". Many more exist, with the basic names qualified by adjectives.

The fish are named after the Island of Sardinia. In the past, they could easily be fished there.

Many shops and supermarkets sell canned (or tinned) "sardines". Very often, those fish are not sardines, but rather sprats or round herrings. 


</doc>
<doc id="15304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15304" title="Bone">
Bone

Bones are parts of the human or animal skeleton of vertebrates. They are stiff organs which make up the endoskeleton. Our body is made of flesh and blood built on a framework of bones. Without our bones, we could not stand up or move about. They also protect organs inside our body. The skull protects the brain and the ribs protect the heart and lungs. The teeth support the facial muscles and help us smile. The number of bones in a human's neck is the same as a giraffe's.

The bones are the framework of the body. Without them we would be a pile of skin on the floor. The bones are also very important for our own protection, that is, the rib cage protects the heart and lungs, cranium (skull) protects the brain, pelvis protects the reproductive organs. Bones need to be maintained by taking regular exercise and by having lots of calcium from foods like cheese, milk, and dark leafy greens such as spinach. The red bone marrow in the middle of the bigger bones is what makes the red blood cells that we need.


</doc>
<doc id="15305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15305" title="Category:1875 deaths">
Category:1875 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15306" title="Category:1808 births">
Category:1808 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1808.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="15307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15307" title="Category:1808">
Category:1808


</doc>
<doc id="15310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15310" title="Category:1926 deaths">
Category:1926 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15311" title="Category:Photography">
Category:Photography

These articles are about Photography.


</doc>
<doc id="15312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15312" title="Category:1582">
Category:1582


</doc>
<doc id="15313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15313" title="Category:1741">
Category:1741


</doc>
<doc id="15314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15314" title="Category:1910">
Category:1910


</doc>
<doc id="15316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15316" title="Anteater">
Anteater

Anteaters are mammals of the family Myrmecophagidae and the suborder Vermilingua. Anteaters live in South America and Central America.

Anteaters eat ants and termites. They have long, sharp claws and a long, sticky tongue. The tongue can be up to 60 cm long, as long as a person's arm. The anteater opens an ant nest with its claws. Then it licks up the ants with its tongue.


</doc>
<doc id="15318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15318" title="Sorghum">
Sorghum

Sorghum is a genus in the grass family "Poaceae". The plants are grown in warmer climates. Species grow naturally in tropical and subtropical regions of all continents in addition to Oceania and Australasia. Because many species of Sorghum are resistant to drought and high temperatures, it is a very important food source in the desert areas of Africa. 


</doc>
<doc id="15319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15319" title="Brown Bear">
Brown Bear

A Brown Bear ("Ursus arctos") is a large bear of the Ursidae family. Brown bears live mostly across northern North America and Eurasia.

Brown bears can weigh 130–700 kg (300–1500 pounds). 
It is the national animal of Finland.

There are several Brown Bear subspecies.



</doc>
<doc id="15321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15321" title="Polar bear">
Polar bear

The polar bear ("Ursus maritimus") is a large bear that lives in the Arctic. It is also called white bear or northern bear. It has black fur under the white fur. They are strong and fast, and can run as fast as 35 miles (56 km) an hour for a short distance. Polar bears have 42 teeth.

Polar bear fur consists of a layer of dense underfur and an outer layer of guard hairs, which appear white to tan but are actually translucent. The fur keeps them very warm. They are strong and can swim very well. Polar bears are similar in size to a normal bear but have a slimmer neck, longer legs and fur.

They are mostly carnivorous. They eat mostly seals and fish. When Polar bears hunt, they often wait at holes in the ice, where the seals come up to breathe.

Polar bears live alone. Young Polar bears stay with their mothers for 1–2 years, and they become mature when they are 5–6 years old. People think Polar bears can become 25–30 years old in nature, but in captivity (for example in zoos) they can become up to 45 years old.

Polar bears live in many nations, including five nations as:


The babies are born six weeks after their mother mates. At birth, a baby cub weighs less than 2 pounds (0.9 kg).
The mother feeds the babies milk, which makes them grow fast, and after 10 weeks the cubs weigh a bout 20 to 25 pounds (9.1 to 11.4 kg).
Young polar bears wrestle in the snow to build their strength and skills. They practice using their strong paws, and they show off their big, sharp teeth.

Mother polar bears will do anything to protect their young. They can kill a predator with just one swat of their powerful front paws. Scientists have even seen a mother polar bear stand up and leap at a helicopter to keep it away from her cubs.

During the first year, the cubs begin to eat solid food but still nurse from their mother. They begin to learn to hunt and swim. But they can't live on their own.
By the time they are two years old, the cubs have grown into large bears. They leave their mother and strike off into territory of their own. They hunt and live alone. But they play with other bears they meet.
Polar bears are ready to mate when they are five or six years old. They are adults by this time and weigh 330 to 660 pounds (150 to 300 kg). Both male and female polar bears live to be as much as 30 years old.

As adults, male bears fight with each other over a female. Each male fluffs out his coat of fur to make himself look bigger. Then he swaggers along, growling, to scare off his rival. Polar bear scientists call this "the cowboy walk."

The polar bear was the most dangerous animal to hunt. It was also greatly respected for its strength and spirit. The bear's blubber, meat, and fur all help the Inuit survive. And they gave thanks and respect in turn. After a hunt, they held a celebration that lasted for several days. Then, a polar bear dance was held. Finally, the bear's skull was set on an ice floe to release its spirit back into the Arctic.

When two polar bears meet, they have a special way of greeting each other. They circle around each other for a while, grunting. Then they come closer and touch noses.

A polar bear's paws are perfect snowshoes for them. The bottoms are wide and covered with fur to make them nonslip. The sharp claws help grip the ice.

A polar bear can crawl across ice too thin for a human to walk on. They spread out their legs and lay their bellies flat on the ice. Then they use their claws to slowly push themselves across the ice.

Polar bears mate in April or May. The cub is born in December, when the mother is hibernating. The cub stays in the den with the mother until March, then they all come out. They eat immediately after hibernating. Sometimes, because of global warming this is impossible and the cubs die before they have had a chance to live. The cub leaves its mother in 2–3 years.
If you eat too much of any polar bear's liver, you would die as it contains a lot of Vitamin A, and the body can not handle it. 


</doc>
<doc id="15322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15322" title="The Blues Image">
The Blues Image

The Blues Image was a late 1960s rock band formed in Tampa, Florida in 1966, and their only hit was the song "Ride, Captain, Ride". Members are singer and guitarist Michael Pinera, drummer Manuel Bertematti, and drummer Joe Lala. They were later joined by bassist Malcolm Jones and keyboardist Frank "Skip" Konte.


</doc>
<doc id="15323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15323" title="Drummer">
Drummer

A drummer is a person who plays the drums as a job or as a hobby. This can be someone who plays drums in the military, in a band or as a session musician. As session musician is someone who plays an instrument in a band when no-one else is available.


</doc>
<doc id="15324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15324" title="Singer">
Singer

A singer is a person who sings. Anyone who is singing is a singer. Some people do it as a job (professional singer), others may sing without being paid (amateur singer). Singers may sing anything: songs, opera etc. They may be accompanied by an instrument or an orchestra. Some singers also play a musical instrument such as piano, guitar or harp while they sing (they accompany themselves). Singing is important in movies and in the theatre.

A good singer will have to think of a lot of different things in a performance. Good vocal technique, a large vocal range, as well as "feeling the song" through emotional language and breathing, and also acting to provide a song with meaning. A good singer may be able to learn a song quickly, but it may take some time before they really feel it has become "part of them". 

Singers can sing as a solo, or in a group or a choir. Choirs can include gospel, church music and even pop songs where there are usually two groups of singers, soprano and alto. Sopranos have a higher range and altos have a lower range. Combining these two can create various harmonies which add textures to songs and make them more interesting to listen to.

People who want a career in singing should start young. This means having lots of experience in music, including being able to read music and learning to perform music with other people. Serious vocal training should only begin when the body is more mature (mid- or late teenager).
People may feel like singing for various reasons. They may want to share their feelings with other people. They may be feeling happy about something, or sad, or excited, frustrated or angry. Singing is an art in which mood is expressed through the voice.

Singing


</doc>
<doc id="15325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15325" title="Keyboardist">
Keyboardist

A keyboardist is a musician who plays one or more of the musical instruments called keyboard instruments, such as the piano, organ, or electronic synthesizer. A person who plays piano is also called a pianist. A person who plays organ is called an organist. Many types of music use keyboardists, such as rock, pop, funk, and classical music.


</doc>
<doc id="15326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15326" title="Category:1232">
Category:1232


</doc>
<doc id="15327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15327" title="Category:1230s">
Category:1230s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1230s which begins in the year 1230 and ends in the year 1239.


</doc>
<doc id="15362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15362" title="Mao Zedong">
Mao Zedong

Mao Zedong (December 26, 1893 – September 9, 1976) was a Chinese Communist leader. He was the leader of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) from its establishment in 1949 until his death in 1976. People have different opinions about Mao. The reasons people have called him bad are because they blame him for millions of Chinese deaths, and say that he was not skilled at running the government. They also say that he was impatient and would not wait for things he wanted to achieve. But people who agreed with Mao's Chinese Communist group say that he was a hero, who helped women and peasants gain rights. They also say that he saved China from foreign rule.

Mao was born on December 26, 1893 in the Hunan province of China. He grew up in a farming family, and became a Communist while working at a library. Throughout the 1920's, his power increased, or became larger, in the Communist Party of China, and by 1933, he was its leader. During the 1920s, the group began to fight with rival Chinese leader Chiang Kai-shek and his group, the Kuomintang. This fight was called the Chinese Civil War. Mao said that Chiang was corrupt and unfit to rule China. Mao also wanted to make China follow communism, a way of thinking that opposed private property and supported common ownership.

Chiang Kai-shek's group, the Nationalists, had more fighters in 1935. They beat Mao's Communists and made them move out of the country. The Communists left to a fort that they owned. This move was called the Long March. Mao escaped from the Nationalists with other Communists to a part of China called Yenan. By this time, in 1935, the Chinese Civil War caused 500,000 deaths.

When Japan invaded China in 1937, Mao and Chiang stopped fighting. The United States defeated Japan in 1945 and made the Japanese Army leave China. The Chinese Civil War had been stopped during World War II, but after the war it became very violent. Chiang Kai-shek and the Nationalists had supporters in the cities and among the middle class. Mao and the Communists had many supporters in the farms and the countryside. In those days in China there were more farmers than city people, so Mao had more supporters than Chiang, and others supported Mao because they thought Chiang's government was bad. By 1949, Mao had chased the Nationalists to an island called Taiwan, and told the people that China would be Communist, with him as leader.

In the 1950s, Mao had many plans for how China could move forward in technology very fast and catch up with countries like the United Kingdom and United States. Mao was responsible for the First Five Year Plan and also, The Second Five Year Plan. The Second Five Year Plan had some ideas that did not work the way that Mao had wanted them to. Farms could not produce, or make, much food because of bad farming plans, and cities did not make many things like clothes and machines. Because of the lack of food, many people died of starvation.

In the 1960s, Mao wanted to change everything about China, such as the way Chinese people thought about China, and the way they remembered history. Because of this, he forced people to change things very fast, even if they did not want to. These changes were called The "Cultural Revolution". Mao and his supporters, the Red Guards, did not like it if someone talked about his ideas a bad way, but many people in Chinese cities did not like Mao's ideas because of the food problems. There was also no freedom to do many different things when the Red Guards were running the country. To keep people from saying bad things about Mao and try to rid of him, Mao told all of China's best and brightest people quit their jobs, and go into the farms. China become poorer and weaker because of this.

About the same time Mao became the leader in China, Nikita Khrushchev became the leader in the Soviet Union. Before this, Joseph Stalin was the leader in the Soviet Union, and Mao liked Stalin and respected his way to lead, and China and Russia were allies with each other. Khrushchev thought Stalin was a criminal dictator, and led the country very differently. Mao and Krushchev did not like each other, so the Soviet Union was no longer allies with China. China now had only a few allies like Albania, North Korea, Democratic Kampuchea, and Pakistan. This change of friends was called the Sino-Soviet Split. "Sino" is another way to say "Chinese" in this case.

During the 1970s, Mao became more friendly with the United States. In 1972, American president Richard Nixon visited China and met Mao. Mao died in 1976, and the "Cultural Revolution" ended that year. Mao's supporters were jailed, and Deng Xiaoping, who followed Mao, changed Mao's policies so that Chinese people could have more private ownership.

Some Chinese mainlanders still believe Mao Zedong was a great leader, but they also knew that he did many unwise and bad things. According to Deng Xiaoping, Mao was "seven parts right and three parts wrong", and his "contributions are primary and his mistakes secondary." Some people think Mao made China lose its important ally, or friend, the Soviet Union, in the Sino-Soviet Split. The Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution were two of the things that Mao did that many people disliked. Most historians, people who study history, think that about tens of millions of people died because of Mao's bad ideas and neglect. That is the biggest number of people to ever die without a war. Some people disliked Mao because he did not support family planning, and this caused too many babies to be born, making too many people in too small places. Leaders of China after Mao had to make a new rule called one child policy.

Mao also made several changes to the Chinese language, such as switching from the Wade Giles system of Romanization to Pinyin, which is different. For this reason, Nanking is now called Nanjing on modern maps. Taiwan still uses Wade Giles, so its capital is called Taipei instead of the pinyin Taibei. He also simplified the Chinese characters, making them easier to read and write so that more people would be able to read.



</doc>
<doc id="15368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15368" title="Opus Dei">
Opus Dei

Prelature of the Holy Cross and Opus Dei or more commonly known as Opus Dei, is an organization of the Roman Catholic Church. The aim given to Opus Dei by the Catholic Church is to tell everyone that God wants them to be close to him. This means that everyone is called by God to become a saint. 

Opus Dei was started by St. Josemaria Escriva, a Roman Catholic priest. He started it in 1928. Now, Opus Dei has around 85,000 members all around the world. The head of Opus Dei organization is called a prelate, that is why the organization is called a prelature. The prelature of Opus Dei has priests and also ordinary lay people. 

Opus Dei was approved by the Catholic Church in 1941. And it became a personal prelature in 1982 because of Pope John Paul II. 

Opus Dei was started by a Roman Catholic priest, Josemaria Escrivá, on 2 October 1928 in Madrid, Spain. He said that God himself showed him what to do. On that day he "saw Opus Dei."

He said that the aim of Opus Dei is to help Christians to know that their ordinary life is a way to become a saint and to bring people close to God. And to those who truly understand this, Opus Dei gives them classes, talks, and other help so that they can practice this teaching.

John Paul II said that Opus Dei was started by Escriva but he was led by God.

The present Pope, Benedict XVI, said in the year 2002, that the name of this organization, shows that it is true that Josemaria Escriva did not want to start any organization. Escriva just allowed God to do what he wanted. And so the organization is not Escriva's work, Benedict XVI says. It is "Opus Dei", or God's work. God just used Escriva as a tool to start his own work. 

Some people do not accept what the Popes say. They say Opus Dei is just the work of a man.

The message of St. Josemaría, says José Cardinal Saraiva Martins, Prefect of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints, is part of the constant teachings of the Catholic Church. Here are the main points of the teachings of Escrivá and of Opus Dei on how to get close to God.


Escrivá said that the basis of the life of a Christian is the fact that we are children of God. If we are aware of this fact, then we will be very happy always. "Joy comes from knowing we are children of God." 

According to the Catholic Church, people can find God in their daily work and activities. There they can be very close to him. They do not have to become priests or monks to become a saint. God wants them to become a saint by doing their ordinary duties and activities well. For example, studying, playing, watching TV, helping in the house, reading a book, editing Wikipedia, etc. The task given to Opus Dei by the Catholic Church is to spread this knowledge that one can be a real saint by doing ordinary things and offering them to God.

Pope John Paul II praised Opus Dei and said that its aim of bringing God into the place of work is something great. Cardinal Albino Luciani who later became John Paul I, said that Escriva brought about a big change in how people deal with God. Before people gave importance only to prayers as a way of being close to God. Escriva, he said, gave importance also to work. The work one does can become prayer.

But when Escriva started teaching this, some Jesuits in the 1940s did not understand him. They said he was doing something that is against the Catholic faith because at that time it was believed that only priests and nuns can become holy. Some Jesuit leaders started saying that Opus Dei has secrets which it does not want the world to know, that is why it is dangerous. In fact, they said, Opus Dei just wanted to become very powerful and to control the world. 

All these accusations were cleared up by the Popes and Catholic officials. These officials say that Opus Dei is doing something good for the world, by teaching people how to practice good habits such as telling the truth, working hard, keeping promises, loving people and being concerned with those who are in need. 

However, since the Jesuits are much respected, a lot of people in the world believed what they said. Catholics and non-Catholics are now attacking Opus Dei around the world. They say that the members develop a strong drive to gain influence, and that the behaviour resembles that of a sect. What is also said about the organisation is that it has a very traditional view of the role of women in a Christian society. According to these critics, for Opus Dei the duty of the woman is to busy herself about the house and to raise the children of the family.

A writer named John L. Allen, Jr. wrote a book in the year 2005, which went against these accusations. He said that these claims are mainly based on not understanding Opus Dei. He said that Opus Dei only teaches what the Catholic Church teaches. He said that there are many Opus Dei women who are very good leaders in business, fashion, art, schools, social work, etc. One half of Opus Dei leaders are women, he said, and these women also lead men. It is also true, he says, that Opus Dei teaches that women are very good at taking care of their family. Escriva said that women are natural teachers. 

Another writer, Massimo Introvigne, said that Opus Dei is now being attacked by people who do not believe in God and people who think that God should not be present in the world of human beings. These people, he says, do not want religion to come back to the lives of many people in society.






</doc>
<doc id="15416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15416" title="Superhero">
Superhero

A superhero is a fictional character who has powers which are unusual for normal people.

Modern superheroes usually have superhuman powers, for example have better senses, are stronger and faster than normal humans. Usually a superhero is courageous and noble. They usually have a colorful name and costume.

Some well known superheroes include Superman, Batman, Spider-Man and Wonder Woman.


</doc>
<doc id="15420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15420" title="Paul Karrer">
Paul Karrer

Paul Karrer (April 21, 1889 – June 18, 1971) was a Swiss biochemist best known for his work on vitamins. He and Walter Norman Haworth won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1937.


</doc>
<doc id="15421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15421" title="Smush Parker">
Smush Parker

William "Smush" Parker (born 1 June 1981 in New York, New York) is a professional player in the American National Basketball Association. 

Parker was not selected in the NBA player draft after a college career at Fordham University, and has played for the Cleveland Cavaliers, Detroit Pistons and Phoenix Suns, signing a contract with the Los Angeles Lakers during the 2005 offseason.

He last played in the NBA for the Los Angeles Clippers in 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="15423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15423" title="1462">
1462



</doc>
<doc id="15428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15428" title="Half-Life (video game)">
Half-Life (video game)

Half-Life is a science fiction first-person shooter computer game developed by Valve Software and published by Sierra Entertainment in 1998, based on a very changed "Quake" game engine. It was first published for PCs running Microsoft Windows, and was later ported to Sony's PlayStation 2 video game console. It is the first game in the Half-Life (Series)

"Half-Life", often shortened to "HL", has been thought to be very great by computer game critics for its gripping in-depth storyline, which has influenced the development of many other first-person shooters after it. It became very popular after it was released and still has many fans.

The story of the game revolves around a science research company in the United States named Black Mesa. In the game, you are Gordon Freeman, a scientist who works at Black Mesa. A test goes wrong, causing portals to open to another world. Aliens from the planet, Xen come through the portals and kill many of the scientists and workers. Gordon Freeman (the player) must escape Black Mesa and get help before it's too late.


</doc>
<doc id="15429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15429" title="1681">
1681

Year 1681 was a common year that started on a Wednesday when using the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="15430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15430" title="Anonymity">
Anonymity

Anonymity means "namelessness" and comes from Greek words meaning "without name". It is when a person's identity or name is unknown. If a person is called anonymous, nobody knows who he or she is, or the anonymous person does not want to be found out. 


</doc>
<doc id="15431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15431" title="Spectroscopy">
Spectroscopy

Spectroscopy is the study of light as a function of length of the wave that has been emitted, reflected or shone through a solid, liquid, or gas. Many times it is analyzed when the chemical is heated, because it makes a special color of flame. Most chemicals make a different color or spectrum than other chemicals. This can be used to see what chemicals are in a substance. Spectroscopy allows scientists to investigate and explore things that are too small to be seen through a microscope, such as molecules, and the even smaller subatomic particles like protons, neutrons and electrons.

There are special instruments to measure and analyse these light waves. IR spectroscopy measures light in the infrared electromagnetic spectrum. X-ray crystallography can look at the structure of a molecule. UV-Vis use visible and ultraviolet light to look at how much of a chemical is in a liquid. NMR, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, can look at nuclei. 



</doc>
<doc id="15432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15432" title="Category:1681">
Category:1681

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year 1681.


</doc>
<doc id="15433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15433" title="Category:800">
Category:800


</doc>
<doc id="15434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15434" title="Category:800s">
Category:800s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 800s which begins in the year 800 and ends in the year 809.

Note that 800 is actually the last year of the 8th century; 801 is the actual first year of the 9th century.


</doc>
<doc id="15437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15437" title="Equestrianism">
Equestrianism

Equestrianism (Horse riding) is a popular sport in countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia. Horses are used in many different competitions.
Show Jumping is where a rider rides a horse over a set course of horse jumps while being timed. The horse and rider must also try not to knock down any of the jumps and at the fastest time otherwise the rider will get faults and/or time penalties. There are many types of horse jumps such as the double oxer, triple oxer, gates, stone wall, cross rails, Cavalettis, tiger traps, liverpool, corner,wood jumps and other cross country jumps. 

Not every type of horse can jump well, just like not all horses are able to do well at horse racing or farm work. Most horses seen in show jumping competitions are warm blood horses like Hanoverians. The riding is popular since 1900.

Dressage is an event where horses do not jump, but must be very obedient to their riders. There is usually a sequence that the horse and rider must complete. Letters are placed around an arena to show where movements should happen. In dressage the horse and rider can also perform a freestyle, which is also known as "Dancing on Horseback". (Also in western riding there are freestyles in the reining category) Dressage riders usually wear tight pants called breeches, as well as a blouse, a top coat and a top hat. The moves the horse performs are very graceful and fun to watch.

Eventing combines Dressage, Showjumping, and the horse version of Cross Country (horses are scored on how fast they complete all of the solid jumps on a course with different types of footing) into one sport. This Combined Training is based on the old military tests of the cavalry where the rider's life depended on the horse listening to what the rider told it to do.

Stock work began when horses were ridden on a ranch to round up cows, sheep, or other animals. Today, horse shows also have competitions for horses to show these skills. Like Cutting, Reining, Barrel Racing, Cattle Penning, Calf Roping, Pole Bending, etc.

Driving in the horse world means that a horse is pulling a type of wagon. It knows where to go by a person sitting on the wagon that tells them which direction they should turn. A horse used to pull a wagon is usually bigger and heavier than most other horses. The hooves are also much larger than a racing horse. Large horses are calm, trustworthy and good-natured. Types of heavy horses are: Belgians, Shires, Clydesdale, Friesian horse, and Gypsy Vanners. Also a beginner is able to communicate with these well tempered horses.

Pleasure riding is riding for enjoyment, not for awards. People ride horses on trails in the forest, along quiet roads, or in an arena near their homes or barns. Horse back riding lessons could be considered "Pleasure Riding". Pleasure riding can be called trail riding. Pleasure riding does not have to be for any specific reason, just for fun and enjoyment. Riding in a horse carriage may also be for pleasure.

Racing tests the speed of a horse. Different breeds do different types of races. The most popular type in the U.S. is Thoroughbred racing, where only horses of this breed can participate in galloping around a track. There are also endurance races, trotting races and steeplechases (horses galloping around a track with jumps).


</doc>
<doc id="15439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15439" title="United States Virgin Islands">
United States Virgin Islands

The United States Virgin Islands are a group of islands in the Caribbean Sea and are currently owned and under the authority of the United States Government. They were formerly owned by Denmark (and called "Danish West Indies"), and were sold to the U.S on January 17, 1917, because of fear that the Germans would capture them and use them as a submarine base in World War I. They hold the distinction of being the only part of the U.S. whose vehicles drive on the left hand side of the road.



</doc>
<doc id="15440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15440" title="Chester A. Arthur">
Chester A. Arthur

Chester Alan Arthur (October 5, 1829 – November 18, 1886) was an American politician and the 21st President of the United States. Before becoming president, he was most noted as the Collector of Customs for the port of New York. 

After President James Garfield died, vice-president Chester Arthur replaced him. During his term a major problem was that people were appointing their friends into high political offices instead of people who were most qualified to do the job. The problem was solved after he passed the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act which required people to pass tests before they could enter a high political office.



</doc>
<doc id="15446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15446" title="Wizardry">
Wizardry

Wizardry is a series of computer role-playing games that were popular in the 1980s. First, made for the Apple II, they were later moved to other platforms. The latest game in the series, "Wizardry 8", is only for Windows.

"Wizardry" began as a simple dungeon crawl by Andrew C. Greenberg and Robert Woodhead. It was written when they were students at Cornell University and then published by Sir-Tech.

David W. Bradley took over the series after the fourth game. 

Ultimately the single game became a series:

The first and last three games were trilogies (Three parts of one story). 

"Wizardry" inspired many games which were almost exactly like it. Some notable series that are very much like "Wizardry" include "The Bard's Tale" and "Might and Magic".



</doc>
<doc id="15451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15451" title="United States Army">
United States Army

The United States Army is a branch (or section) of the United States Armed Forces.

The army mainly deals with land based missions and operations. The army started as the Continental Army from 1775 to August 7, 1789 when the War Department (now known as the Department of Defense) was formed. Officially a person (or member) in the army is called a soldier. The soldier must take orders from a person in charge known as a CO or commander. When a person joins the Army, they must serve for a certain amount of time or a "tour of duty". A new soldier or recruit must go through training called Basic Training to become a soldier. Each soldier is trained in a variety of weapons and equipment to carry out commands.
The United States Army serves as the land-based branch of the U.S. Military. 



</doc>
<doc id="15452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15452" title="Charlemagne">
Charlemagne

Charlemagne (Latin: Carolus Magnus, English: Charles the Great, German: Karl der Große, Dutch: Karel de Grote) (ca. 742 or 747 - 28 January, 814) was the king of the Franks who started the Holy Roman Empire. He was crowned as the Emperor in 800. He was the older son of King Pippin III of the Carolingian dynasty. When Pippin died, Charlemagne and his brother Carloman ruled together. When Carloman died in 771 Charlemagne became the only ruler of the Franks. In 800, on Christmas Day, Pope Leo III made him an emperor.

The Franks—one of the Germanic peoples who had moved their homes over the River Rhine into the Roman Empire as it was falling apart—were, by the year 700, the rulers of Gaul, and a lot of Germania east of the Rhine. They also protected the Papacy and the Roman Catholic faith. When their king Pepin the Short died, his sons, Charlemagne and Carloman were chosen to share the kingdom. They divided it into two parts: one half for Charlemagne, and the other for Carloman. Carloman died on December 4, 771, leaving Charlemagne as the leader of the whole Frankish kingdom.

He was king of the Franks from 768, and king of the Lombards from 774. He was crowned Imperator Augustus (Emperor) in Rome on Christmas Day by Pope Leo III in 800, starting the Holy Roman Empire, that they hoped would be a kind of second Western Roman Empire (while the Byzantines in Constantinople were still keeping up the Eastern Roman empire.) With many wars, Charlemagne spread his empire across much of Western Europe.

Charlemagne fought in wars all the time when he was king. He is known for using his sword, “Joyeuse”, in each of the thirty years of war and the 18 battles he fought in. He also finally managed to conquer Saxony, something the Roman Emperor Augustus could not do 800 years earlier. He was able to convert the Saxons to Catholic Christianity. He also had many schools built so his people could learn. However he also killed thousands of those who failed to convert.

Charlemagne's politics and plans failed, which lead to low self-esteem. His last years were spent in bed in deep depression. He died in 814, leaving his kingdom to his only son, Louis the Pious. The descendants of Charlemagne are called "Carolingians". His family line died out in Germany in 911 and in France in 987.



</doc>
<doc id="15454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15454" title="Marlow, Buckinghamshire">
Marlow, Buckinghamshire

Marlow is a town on the banks of the River Thames, on the southern tip of Buckinghamshire, England.



</doc>
<doc id="15455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15455" title="Italian unification">
Italian unification

Near the beginning of 1848, nationalism and patriotism flourished throughout Europe. This resulted in two major countries being formed. The first was Italy in the Italian unification. The second was Germany in the German unification. 
Risorgimento (also called Italian unification or unification of Italy or 'the resurgence) refers to the Italian movement for independence, literally meaning resurgence in the Italian language. It truly began in 1848, in a series of revolts which swept through Italy with the fall of Klemens Wenzel von Metternich, the Austrian Chancellor. It succeeded in 1859 through the efforts of Count Cavour, the Piedmontese prime minister, as well as Giuseppe Garibaldi. - an Italian national hero, who united the South, thus allowing King Victor Emmanuel to become the first King of Italy.

Prince Metternich of Austria once said that Italy was a "geographic expression". Basically, he called it a place and not a country at all. The people of Italy remembered and longed for the glorious days of the Roman Empire. One Italian patriot said "we need a new Italy, a united Italy, the Italy of all Italians." But after the Congress of Vienna, most of Italy had been broken up into small territories under foreign rule. Many Italian Nationalists struggled for independence. They lost the war terribly.

Victor Emmanuel of Piedmont-Sardinia saw a great vision of a unified Italy. He wanted Piedmont-Sardinia to be a model for the unification of Italy. To do so, he started many public works, projects, and political reforms. Piedmont-Sardinia was soon recognized as an emerging power. The next step for Piedmont-Sardinia 's conquest was to get Austria out of the Italian Peninsula. With the Crimean War breaking out between France and Britain on one side, and Russia on the other, Piedmont-Sardinia saw a chance to earn some respect and make a name for itself. Britain and France proved victorious, and Sardinia was able to attend the peace conference. As a result of this, Piedmont-Sardinia gained the support of Napoleon III.

In 1858, Sardinia and France secretly plotted a plan of attack against Austria. The following year, Sardinia put its plan into action and declared war on Austria. By Sardinia's encouraging nationalist revolts in Austrian-held territories in Italy, Austria was provoked into the war. Following the battles of Magenta and Solferino, France drove Austia out of Lombardy, but Austria still held onto Venetia.
At this point, France dropped out of the war, fearing a unified Italy might be a threat, as well as realising that Austrian Strength would eventually crush them. This ended the war, with Austria keeping Venetia.

Meanwhile, the Italian nationalist Giuseppe Garibaldi led a nationalist uprising, combining the states and territories into a full Republic. As Sardinia ended the war, Garibaldi gave most of the provinces to Sardinia. In March 1861, a parliament of all of Italy except Rome and Venetia, agreed on unifying Italy with Victor Emmanuel as its first king.


</doc>
<doc id="15457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15457" title="Meditation">
Meditation

Meditation is to try to get past the "thinking" mind, and into a deeper state of relaxation or awareness.
Meditation is used in Buddhism , Christianity (sometimes), Hinduism ( where Yoga is important ) 
and other religions.

In Buddhism, three things are very important: being a good person, making the mind stronger, and understanding why people are in pain (Dukkha). Meditation is the main way that Buddhists make their minds stronger.

Buddhist meditation is not just used for spiritual reasons. In general, Buddhist meditation can help anyone calm their body and mind. Research shows that Buddhist meditation lowers stress, anxiety and depression. 

For Buddhists, meditation is used to calm the mind so that the mind can better see the cause of pain. Buddhists believe that this type of seeing can end pain.

Most types of Buddhist meditation focus on something. The most popular things to focus on include the breath, love, other emotions, and religious images and sounds.

Most Buddhists find that a teacher and support and encouragement from other members of the Buddhist community are important elements of meditation practice. The Buddhist community is also known as the Sangha.

Christians sometimes meditate by thinking about small parts of the Bible, or by saying the words of a prayer to themselves over and over.

See also: Meditation (in Krishna consciousness)









</doc>
<doc id="15460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15460" title="Nobel Peace Prize">
Nobel Peace Prize

The Nobel Peace Prize is one of six awards in the memory of Alfred Nobel, the inventor of Dynamite. Every year the organization gives out six awards for the people "who best benefit mankind through their actions" in one of the six subjects; peace, literature, physics, chemistry, economics, and medicine. 

The Peace Prize is given out in Norway, but the other Prizes are given out in Sweden. This is because Norway and Sweden were one country when the prizes were started.

Here are the winners of the Nobel Peace Prize:


</doc>
<doc id="15463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15463" title="Category:814 deaths">
Category:814 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="15464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15464" title="Category:810s deaths">
Category:810s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 810s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="15465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15465" title="Category:814">
Category:814


</doc>
<doc id="15466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15466" title="Category:810s">
Category:810s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 810s which begins in the year 810 and ends in the year 819.


</doc>
<doc id="15467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15467" title="Category:740s births">
Category:740s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 740s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="15468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15468" title="Category:740s">
Category:740s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 740s which begins in the year 740 and ends in the year 749.


</doc>
<doc id="15472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15472" title="Celtic Park">
Celtic Park

Celtic Park is a football stadium in Parkhead, Glasgow, Scotland. It is the home ground of Celtic Football Club.


</doc>
<doc id="15473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15473" title="Romanian language">
Romanian language

The Romanian language is a Romance language, meaning it comes from Latin like French, Spanish and Italian. It has 66% Latin based words, 20% Slavic based words, the rest are newer and come from Dacian, Turkish, Greek or English. There are about 28 million speakers: 24 million who speak it as their mother tongue and 4 million who have learned it as their second language.

Romanian is also the most spoken language in Moldova, which is located North East of Romania. In Moldova, they refer to Romanian as Moldavian. However, there are certain differences, such as the dialect and a Moldavian accent.


</doc>
<doc id="15483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15483" title="Ealing">
Ealing

Ealing is a town in the London Borough of Ealing, most famous for the Ealing Studios, a movie studio.


</doc>
<doc id="15485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15485" title="Roma">
Roma



</doc>
<doc id="15487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15487" title="Category:Cities in Argentina">
Category:Cities in Argentina

Cities in Argentina.


</doc>
<doc id="15497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15497" title="Ear">
Ear

The ear is the part of the body that lets people hear. Some animals, like people and most vertebrates, have two ears, but some animals do not hear through ears. Spiders have small hairs on their legs that they can hear with. 

The ear works by directing sound to the inner ear. These vibrations are sent to the brain by a network of nerves.

The part of the ear that sticks out and can be seen is called the "pinna".

Ears also are used for other purposes. Elephants use their large ears to cool themselves when it is very hot.


</doc>
<doc id="15507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15507" title="Czech language">
Czech language

The Czech language is a Slavic language. People in the Czech Republic speak it. Ten million people speak it. It has three genders. It is an inflected language like Latin.


</doc>
