<doc id="21162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21162" title="Abdullah Öcalan">
Abdullah Öcalan

Abdullah Öcalan is the leader of Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), a Communist group banned by the government of Turkey. Turkey branded Abdullah as a terrorist, "Öcalan" means, in Turkish, ""he who takes revenge" He has been imprisoned for his terrorist activities.
He was born on April, 4th 1949 into a poor peasant family in the village of Omerli, Urfa. He studied at vocational school and then pursued a course at the School of Political Science, Ankara University. He became involved in militant Maoist politics and was first arrested in 1973. In 1975 he returned to Kurdistan and in 1978 he was one of the founder members of the PKK. At the First Congress in November 1978 he was elected leader.

He left Turkey in 1979, before the military coup of September 1980, which led to the imprisonment of thousands of members and sympathisers of the party. In 1982 the PKK decided to resume an armed struggle inside Turkey and in August 1984 the military wing, the Liberation Units of Kurdistan (HRK), began operations. In 1985 the political wing was renamed the National Liberation Front of Kurdistan (ERNK) and in 1986 the HRK became the Peoples Liberation Army of Kurdistan (ARGK). Öcalan's pronouncements had become increasingly moderate through the 1990s, publicly he stated his desire to move the PKK away from violence and towards a political approach.

He was forced out of his group's base in Syria, following pressure from Turkey, in November 1998. He fled to Russia and then Europe, he was arrested after arriving from Moscow at Rome's Fiumicino Airport. He was soon released while he appealed for political asylum, Italian law forbids the extradition of someone to a country where they would face a death sentence. An extradition request from Germany also collapsed amid political maneuvering. He left Italy on 16 January 1999 and returned to Russia but soon left for Greece, apparently intending to fly from there to The Hague. He was refused entry to a number of European states and instead, on February 3 (?) the Greek authorities flew him to Nairobi, Kenya.

On February 15, 1999 Turkey succeeded in kidnapping or arresting him in Nairobi and quickly transported him to Turkey. The details of his capture remain unclear. On February 16, across Europe, Kurdish supporters responded with protests, acts of violence and terrorism. Öcalan was charged with treason in Ankara, Turkey on February 23. 

Öcalan is held as the only inmate on the prison island of Imrali.He was tried to poison in many different occasions.His basic human rights have been repeatedly violated since his imprisonment. He was tried before a military court on the island from May 31, 1999. The trial had six days of proceedings and following various adjournments he was sentenced to death on June 29. His appeal was rejected in November but the sentence was suspended while there was a review by the European Court of Human Rights. In September 2002 a Turkish court finally reduced his sentence to life imprisonment. The country had abandoned the death penalty in August 2002 as part of the process towards joining the European Union.



</doc>
<doc id="21163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21163" title="Caribbean Community">
Caribbean Community

The Caribbean Community , or CARICOM, is a group of nations in the Caribbean Sea that have come together. They share their products, and they have a government to help organize the area. They are mainly together to help trade and their economies.

The full members are:



</doc>
<doc id="21167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21167" title="1747">
1747





</doc>
<doc id="21168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21168" title="1762">
1762



</doc>
<doc id="21169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21169" title="1620">
1620



</doc>
<doc id="21170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21170" title="1520">
1520



</doc>
<doc id="21172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21172" title="List of towns in Greenland">
List of towns in Greenland

This is a list of the towns in Greenland that have over 1,000 people living in them (the first name is in Greenlandic, the second is in Danish):




</doc>
<doc id="21173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21173" title="Qaqortoq">
Qaqortoq

Qaqortoq, also known by its Danish name "Julianehåb", is a town in southwestern Greenland. With a population of 3,100, it is South Greenland's biggest town. It is the fourth biggest town in Greenland. The name Qaqortoq is Western Greenlandic, and it means "white". Qaqortoq also is the seat of the Municipality of Qaqortoq which apart from the town itself includes three small settlements. Qaqortoq was founded by Norwegian Anders Olsen in 1775. Near Qaqortoq are the Hvalsey ruins, the most famous Norse ruins in Greenland.

""Greenland and the Arctic"". By Etain O'Carroll and Mark Elliott. Lonely Planet 2005. ISBN 1-74059-095-3.



</doc>
<doc id="21174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21174" title="Sisimiut">
Sisimiut

Sisimiut (also known by its Danish name 'Holsteinsborg') is a town in southwestern Greenland. With 5,247 people (as of 2005), it is the second biggest town in Greenland. It is 75 kilometers north of the Arctic Circle, and is Greenland's most northern year-round port which has no ice. 



</doc>
<doc id="21176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21176" title="Arctic Circle">
Arctic Circle

The Arctic Circle is one of the five major circles of latitude (imaginary lines around the Earth) that are often marked on maps of the Earth. This is the parallel of latitude that (in 2000) runs 66° 33' 39" north of the Equator.

The Arctic Circle is one way to say what part of the Earth is in the Arctic. The North Pole is in the center of the Arctic Circle.

Countries which are partly within the Arctic Circle are:



</doc>
<doc id="21177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21177" title="Kabul">
Kabul

Kabul is the capital and the largest city in Afghanistan with about 5 million people living there. It is 1,800 meters, or 5,900 feet above-sea-level. Kabul is over 3,000 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="21178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21178" title="Parfait">
Parfait

Parfait is a type of food that is eaten as a dessert. It is a French word that means "perfect". 
Parfaits are made differently in different countries.
A common parfait is the French kind. A French parfait mixes sugar, whip cream, an egg yolk, sauce, cold fruit and frozen ice cream. French parfaits are served on a plate not in a glass. 
Japanese parfait made mainly of ice cream and fruit with a sweet ingredient. It is served in a tall glass. It is a classic on a coffee shop menu. It is one of the more popular desserts.



</doc>
<doc id="21179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21179" title="Parrot">
Parrot

True parrots are birds of the family Psittacidae. There are 330 species of true parrots. Parakeets are a type of true parrot. Parrot is also a general term for all birds of the order Psittaciformes. This order includes true parrots as well as cockatoos. 

Birds of the parrot family can be found in most of the warm parts of the world, such as India, southeast Asia and west Africa. One species, the now extinct Carolina Parakeet, lived in the United States. The biggest number of parrot species come from Oceania, South America, and Central America. They are often kept as pets.

All parrots have a curved beak and four toes on each foot. Two toes face forward and two toes face back. Some parrots live up to 80 years. Many parrots can imitate human speech, they can speak easy words if repeated a few times.


</doc>
<doc id="21180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21180" title="Angel food cake">
Angel food cake

Angel food cake is an example of cake that became popular in the United States in the 19th century. It is also called angel cake. It is very light and fluffy. Because of this, it is named Angel cake because it is said to be "food for the angels."

Angel food cake needs the egg whites to be whipped until they are stiff, and carefully folded into the other ingredients. For this method of "leavening" to work well, it is helpful to have flour that has been made of softer wheat. This — and not having fat — causes angel food cake to have a very light texture and taste. Angel food cake should be cut with a serrated knife, as a solid blade tends to compress the cake rather than cut it.

These days, some cooks like Alton Brown add aromatic spices to angel food cake.


</doc>
<doc id="21187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21187" title="Wrench">
Wrench

A wrench (spanner in British English) is a tool used to turn nuts and bolts, and similarly shaped objects.

Some types of wrenches are:

An adjustable spanner, or adjustable wrench, or crescent wrench in American English, is a tool. It may move its jaw to rotate nuts or bolts of different sizes. It was invented by Edwin Beard Budding (1795-1846), who also invented the lawnmower.

An open end spanner or open end wrench is a tool used to turn nuts.


</doc>
<doc id="21193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21193" title="Salman Rushdie">
Salman Rushdie

Salman Rushdie, (Devanagari : अहमद सलमान रश्दी Nastaliq:; born 19 June 1947) known as "Mallun Rushdie" in Islamic world, is a novelist and essayist and author of "Midnight's Children" (1981), which won the Booker Prize. Many muslims regard him as an agent of anti-Islamic forces. Rushdie was born in India, but lives in England.

He wrote a book in the year 1988, called "The Satanic Verses". Many Muslims see the book as blasphemous against Islam. It included prophet Muhammad as a character and mentioned the Satanic verses in a way that can easily be understood as criticism of Muhammad. Many countries banned this book because they argued it tried to spread hatred about all Muslims in general and Prophet in particular. 

The leader of the country of Iran talked on the radio about Rushdie. He said that Rushdie did not believe in Islam and that Rushdie should be executed for spreading the wrong and false word about Prophet Muhammad through this book. This is called a fatwa. In the year 1989, the British government began protecting Rushdie. In 1990, Rushdie wrote an essay, in which he tried to prove that he was a Muslim. However, many sources still say he is an atheist.

He has been married four times. His last marriage was to actress and model Padma Lakshmi; they divorced in 2007.



</doc>
<doc id="21195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21195" title="Lilo &amp; Stitch">
Lilo &amp; Stitch

Lilo & Stitch is a 2002 animated movie, released by Walt Disney Pictures on June 21, 2002. The 42nd animated movie in the Disney animated features canon, it was written by and directed by Chris Sanders and Dean DeBlois. It was the second of three Disney animated movies produced mainly at the Walt Disney Feature Animation Florida studio in Walt Disney World's Disney-MGM Studios in Orlando, Florida. The movie was rated PG for "mild sci-fi action". "Lilo & Stitch" was nominated for the 2002 Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, which went to Hayao Miyazaki's movie, "Spirited Away" which also was released by Walt Disney Pictures and starred Daveigh Chase (in the English version).

The song used by Disney to advertise the movie was Suspicious Minds, performed by Gareth Gates, who became famous on the UK TV program "Pop Idol".

The movie was so popular, that a direct-to-video sequel, "Stitch! The Movie", was made. They launched a television series, "", and a second direct-to-video sequel, "", was released in August 2005. A third and final direct-to-video sequel, "Leroy & Stitch", was released in June 2006 and ended the TV series.

The movie was released on VHS and DVD on December 3, 2002. In 2003, a 2-disc DVD version was announced to come out along with Alice in Wonderland and Pocahontas, which were released in 2004 and 2005. A 2-Disc Special Edition DVD of Lilo & Stitch was released in the UK on August 22nd 2005, along with the UK release of , but a release in the US was affected by many delays. On March 24, 2009, Disney finally released the special edition DVD, which is called a 2-Disc "Big Wave Edition". This new DVD has everything that the original DVD had and adds an audio commentary, a 2-hour documentary, more deleted scenes, a number of behind-the-scenes featurettes, and some games. The original DVD is no longer available, with the new one having the same list price.

An evil alien scientist named Dr. Jumba Jookiba creates many creatures. This is against the law of his planet, and he is arrested. One experiment, named "626", escapes the planet. He flies a spaceship to Earth.

On Earth, a little human girl named Lilo adopts him (thinking he is a dog) and names him "Stitch". Lilo lives in Hawaii, a series of islands in the United States of America. Lilo's mother and father have died in a car crash, so her older sister Nani takes care of her.

Stitch becomes Lilo's best friend. Lilo tries to teach Stitch how to be good. She uses music by Elvis Presley in her lessons. He also learns a new phrase: "Ohana means family. Family means nobody gets left behind or forgotten."


The movie opening at #2 with $35,260,212 in its first weekend, less than $500,000 behind the film "Minority Report". In its second week, fell to #3, again behind the Steven Spielberg movie at #2. The movie made $145,794,338 in the United States and Canada, and $127,349,813 internationally, finishing with $273,144,151 in the world.

"Lilo & Stitch" received very positive reviews from critics and movie-goers alike, and to date has been the only Walt Disney Pictuers movie released during the 2000s to have both critical approval and make its cost back during its original theatrical release. The movie's success at the box office and on DVD led to a franchise, with four direct-to-video sequels and a television series that lasted two seasons. The movie has received 139 reviews on Rotten Tomatoes, 119 positive and 20 negative, giving it a positive total rating of 86%.

The soundtrack of the movie was released by Walt Disney Records on June 21, 2002.
It, along with the movie, has more Elvis Presley songs than any of Elvis' own movies.

On August 26, 2003, Disney released a direct-to-video sequel, "Stitch! The Movie", which was made as the pilot to a TV series titled "". This series ran for 65 episodes between September 20, 2003 and July 29, 2006. The series carried on where the movie left off and showed Lilo's efforts to capture and re-home Jumba's remaining experiments. This series ended with "Leroy & Stitch", which was released on June 27, 2006.

On August 2005, "", the "official" direct-to-video sequel to the movie, was released. In this movie, Stitch has a glitch because his molecules were never fully charged (this is different than a deleted opening, "Stitch's trial", which was seen on the DVD release of Lilo & Stitch). Lilo wants to win the May Day hula contest like her mother did in the 1970s, but Stitch continues to have problems. Lilo thinks Stitch is not behaving right, until she finds out that Stitch is dying.

In March 2008, Disney announced that it is to produce a remade version of "Lilo & Stitch", called "Stitch!", for the Japanese market. The show, which began in October 2008, features a Japanese girl named Yuna (formerly referred to as Hanako) in place of Lilo, and is set on a fictional island in Okinawa prefecture instead of Hawaii. The series is produced by the Japanese animation house Madhouse LTD.



</doc>
<doc id="21204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21204" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs

AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs is a list of the top one hundred comedy movies in American cinema. The American Film Institute presented it on June 14, 2000.



</doc>
<doc id="21206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21206" title="Irish Sea">
Irish Sea

The Irish Sea is a body of water that separates Ireland and Great Britain.
It is known to be one of the most polluted seas in the world including the North sea and the mediterranean sea.


</doc>
<doc id="21212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21212" title="Party (disambiguation)">
Party (disambiguation)

A party is a social gathering primarily for celebration and recreation. 

Party could also mean an individual person, or group of individuals:






Parti (a foreign spelling) may also mean:


in the video game industry:



</doc>
<doc id="21213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21213" title="Hatred">
Hatred

Hate or hatred is an emotion of very strong dislike for someone or something. It is a desire to avoid, restrict, remove, or destroy that person or thing. It is often thought the opposite of love.

Sigmund Freud said that hatred was a selfish feeling that wishes to get rid of whatever is making that person unhappy. The "Penguin Dictionary of Psychology" says that hate is a "deep, enduring (long-lasting), intense emotion expressing , anger, and towards a person, group, or object."


</doc>
<doc id="21225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21225" title="1270">
1270





</doc>
<doc id="21229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21229" title="Template:Ref num">
Template:Ref num


</doc>
<doc id="21230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21230" title="Dallas, Texas">
Dallas, Texas

Dallas is a large city in the northern part of the U.S. state of Texas. It is a part of a much larger group of cities called the Metroplex, along with important cities like Arlington, Denton, Fort Worth, and Plano. The city is one of the largest in the United States.

The city is home to the Dallas Cowboys, a professional American football team.
The city is also home to the Dallas Stars, a hockey team in the NHL, the Texas Rangers, a baseball team in the MLB, and the Dallas Mavericks, a basketball team in the NBA.

The city of Dallas was started in 1841 by John Neely Bryan. Over time, it grew into a large city with many companies. In 1915, Southern Methodist University opened in Dallas. On November 22, 1963, United States President John F. Kennedy was shot and killed in Dallas.


</doc>
<doc id="21231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21231" title="Ilulissat">
Ilulissat

Ilulissat (population 4,000) is the third largest city in Greenland. The town is about halfway up the country's west coast, at 69 degrees north latitude, about 200 kilometers north of the Arctic Circle. Illulisat is also known by its Danish name of Jakobshavn (or Jacob's Harbour). In direct translation, Ilulissat is the Greenlandic word for 'The Icebergs'. Ilulissat is Greenland's most popular tourist place, because it is near to the beautiful Ilulissat Ice Fjord - tourism is now the town's main industry. Ilulissat was the birthplace of the great polar explorer Knud Rasmussen, and his childhood home in the center of the town is now a museum dedicated to him.

Inuit villages have been in the area of the ice fjord for at least three thousand years. The abandoned settlement of Sermermiut two kilometers south of the modern town of Ilulissat was once amongst the largest settlements in Greenland, with around 250 residents. The modern town was founded in 1741 by a missionary and a trader of fur, who had built a trading lodge in the area. 

The Ilulissat fjord goes west 40 kilometers from the Greenland icecap to Disko Bay, close to Ilulissat town. At its eastern end is the Jakobshavn Isbrae Glacier, the most productive glacier in the Northern Hemisphere. The glacier flows at a rate of 20-35 metres per day, resulting in around 20 billion tons of icebergs breaking off and leaving the fjord every year. On breaking up the icebergs come out into the open sea and at first, they travel north with ocean currents. Soon, they start turning south and they go into the Atlantic Ocean. 

The Ilulissat Icefjord was made a United Nations World Heritage Site in 2004.

Air Greenland has air services to Ilulissat.




</doc>
<doc id="21232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21232" title="Chimpanzee">
Chimpanzee

Chimpanzees are great apes of the genus Pan. They live in Africa. 


The Common Chimpanzee lives in West and Central Africa. The Bonobo lives in the rain forests of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The two species are on opposite sides of the Congo River.

Chimpanzees mainly eat fruit, leaves, flowers, seeds, bark, honey, insects, bird eggs, and meat. They spend a lot of time with other chimpanzees from their group, acting up, playing, and chatting. Sometimes they will groom each other; combing and looking through each other's thick fur; picking out the dirt and insects. Grooming helps chimps feel comfortable and friendly.

Like apes, chimpanzees can walk on two feet, but they prefer to move about on all four legs. They have hands that look like human hands, but their thumbs are shorter than those of humans. At night, chimpanzees sleep in nests that they make on tree branches. They bend twigs and tuck in leaves to make a soft platform to rest in a place that is safe from enemies on the ground. The gestation period of chimpanzees lasts between six and eight months. Usually only one offspring is produced; they rarely have twins. Chimpanzees live up to 60 years in the wild.

Jane Goodall, an expert primatologist, has been studying chimpanzees since 1985. Dr. Goodall observed how chimpanzees use tools in several ways. They will pick up rocks to crack nuts for a meal. They also strip down twigs and stick them into a termite mound to collect a tasty snack. Some have been known to make a sponge from leaves in order to hold more drinking water. The chimp chews leaves to soften them up, dips them in rainwater, and then squeezes the water into its mouth. Chimpanzees are also known to think ahead and solve problems.

Chimpanzees show their emotions with their faces and sounds. They make hooting sounds to express the discovery of food, and the face of a chimpanzee with a scowling face and lips pressed is to express annoyance. This means the chimpanzee may attack. Or, the chimpanzee may bare its teeth to express that it is afraid or that a more dominant chimp is approaching.

Bonobos are smaller than other chimpanzees. They tend to climb in the trees more than other chimps. They are more like monkeys in that way.

According to a genome study done by the Chimpanzee Sequencing and Analysis Consortium, humans share either 96% or 95% of their DNA with chimpanzees. However, this applies only to single nucleotide polymorphisms, that is, changes in "single" base pairs only. The full picture is rather different.

24% of the chimpanzee genome does not align with the human genome, ans so cannot be directly compared. There are 3% further alignment gaps, 1.23% SNP differences, and 2.7% copy number variations totaling at least 30% differences between chimpanzee and "Homo sapiens" genomes. On the other hand, 30% of all human proteins are identical in sequence to the corresponding chimpanzee proteins.



</doc>
<doc id="21235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21235" title="Meridian">
Meridian

A meridian is an imaginary line of longitude drawn along the surface of the earth from the North Pole to the South Pole. 

Geographers today measure these lines from what they call the Prime Meridian. It is the line of longitude that goes through the Royal Greenwich Observatory in Greenwich, England. They decided this at the 1884 "International Meridian Conference".

Meridians, as lines of longitude, are measured in degrees. The Prime Meridian, as the starting point, is 0 (zero) degrees. Lines west of the Prime Meridian are either called "west", as in "the longitude of Los Angeles, California is 118 degrees west", or as a negative number: "the longitude of Los Angeles, California is -118 degrees". Going the other direction, east of the Prime Meridian is always said as a positive number: "The longitude of Mecca is about 40 degrees east," or just "The longitude of Mecca is about 40 degrees."



</doc>
<doc id="21238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21238" title="1700s">
1700s




</doc>
<doc id="21239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21239" title="District">
District

A district is a local government area. Some of the countries districts are used in are Austria, Belgium, China, England, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Pakistan, Portugal, Switzerland, the United States, and many more.


</doc>
<doc id="21240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21240" title="Literacy">
Literacy

Literacy means the ability to read and write. Being able to read and write is an important skill in modern societies. Usually, people learn how to read and write at school. People who can read and write are called "literate"; those who cannot are called "illiterate".

According to the United Nations, illiteracy is not being able to write or read a simple sentence in any language. The UN estimated, that in 1998, about 16% of the world's population were illiterate. 
Illiteracy is highest amongst the states of the Arab peninsula, and in Africa, around the Sahara. In those countries about 30% of men, and 40-50% of women are illiterate, by the UN definition. One of the causes of illiteracy is that someone who can manage to live without being able to read and write often does not have any reason to want to learn to read and write. Cultural factors also play a part, such as having a culture in which the oral tradition (communicating by speaking) is more important than writing. A tribe that mostly herds livestock, for example, may have no need to read or write. 

There are two different kinds of illiteracy:




</doc>
<doc id="21243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21243" title="Isle of Man">
Isle of Man

The Isle of Man () is an island in the Irish Sea, off the coast of Great Britain (of which it is a crown dependency). Douglas is the capital city. It also has a flag with a red background and 3 armoured legs joined together - "whichever way you throw us, we always land on our feet".

It has a Parliament called Tynwald. It is the longest running parliament in the world.

The Isle of Man is a Crown dependency. Foreign affairs, defence, and "good government" are handled by the British government, but in all other matters the island is independent. The Isle of Man Government is the executive and proposes laws to the legislature, Tynwald. Laws passed by Tynwald are given royal approval by the Lieutenant Governor unless the British Minister of Justice says they do not help the good government of the island.

The Isle of Man is an island in the Irish Sea, it is northwest of the European continent. It is between the United Kingdom and Ireland. The island is 13 km wide and 24 km long, it has a total area of 572 km². The Isle of Man has a total of 160 km of coastline, it has no important bodies of water. Apart from the island itself, the Isle of Man also includes some nearby islands. The most important of these islands are called Calf of Man, St Patrick's Ilse and St Michael's Isle.

The island's terrain is varied, it has mountains in the north and south. A valley is more or less in the center of the island, between the cities of Douglas and Peel. The northern part of the island is very flat. Snaefell is the Isle of Man's highest mountain, it measures 621 meters above sea level. It is said that you can see Scotland, England, Ireland and Wales from the top of mount Snaefell.

The Isle of Man has a usually mild weather. Summers are cool and winters are mild and rainy. Rainfall is similar to that of the other British Isles. Elevated parts of the Isle of Man get more rainfall, especially mount Snaefell. The northern and southern parts of the island are not as rainy as the rest.

The island's weather is normally cool. The highest temperature ever registered is 28.9 °C, in Ronaldsway. The Isle of Man is not very sunny, but it is less cloudy than other parts of the British Isles; strong winds around the island help keep clouds in constant movement.

The geology of Man is notable for the Iapetus Suture, which runs almost unseen right through the rocks of the island. The suture is the remnant of a once huge oocean, the Iapetus Ocean, which was lost about 420 million yeaars ago as three continents came together.

The Isle of Man became separated from Ireland and the British Isles about 8500 years ago. The short period of time between the melting of glaciers and the rise of sea level allowed a small number of species to colonize the island by land. The island was heavily deforested in the Middle Ages, this weakened the island's environment. Some land is now protected by the government to help preserve its wildlife. Curraghs Wildlife Park, in the wetlands, is home many species of animals and plants. The island is also home to a large number of bird species.

A lot of the Isle of Man's plant life, or flora, is composed of shrubs (bushes) and other short plants. Several species of grass and moss also live there. Mosses on the island contribute to the formation of peat. There is peat in the island's wet areas. The island has heavily deforested in the Middle Ages. Common trees on the island include ashes, elms, pines, willows, and hawthorns. There are also other trees on the island, as well as many species of flowering plants. Bogs are home to ferns and orchids. 

The Isle of Man is home to a large number of bird and insect species. Many species live in "curraghs" (wetlands in the northeast of the island). Curraghs are protected by the Government of the Isle of Man. Curraghs Wildlife Park is in these wetlands, it is both a zoo and a protected area. During the winter, curraghs are the second largest nesting ground of the Hen Herrier in Europe. The Peregrine Falcon, Merlin, European Robin, Willow Warbler, Song Thrush, Dunnock, Swan and a subspecies of Winter Wren possibly native to the island also nest in the curraghs. The Chough is also in the Isle of Man, it is more common than in other parts of Europe. Some farming methods have decreased the bird population of the island. The Northern Lapwing is now rarely found, and the Yellowhammer is now extinct on the island.

18 species of butterfly and 250 species of moth also live on the Isle of Man. Most of them live in the wetlands during different seasons.



</doc>
<doc id="21250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21250" title="French Revolution">
French Revolution

The French Revolution was a time in French history between 1789 and 1799. During these years, the government and ideas about how France should be ruled changed many times. Generally, ordinary people wanted more power and more rights. 

The most famous event that began the Revolution was the Storming of the Bastille on 14 July, 1789. This led to the end of the monarchy and the start of the Terror in which thousands of people including the king of France Louis XVI, were killed because they did not agree with the Revolution. Many thousands more were killed in the Revolutionary Wars between France and countries that did not like the changes in France.

The Revolution ended when Napoleon Bonaparte took power in November 1799 and began his dictatorship.

Before 1789, France was ruled by the king, the nobles and the church only. This was called an absolute monarchy. Most of the people had little power and were very poor. The ideas of the Enlightenment were beginning to make these ordinary people want more power. They could see that the American Revolution had created a country in which people had power, instead of a king. The government before the revolution was called the Old Regime.

Many problems in France led up to the Revolution:

The Revolution happened because King Louis XVI failed to deal with these problems.

Before the Revolution, France was divided into three Estates. The First Estate was the Clergy (the church) and made up 1% of the population. The Second Estate was the Nobility and made up 2% of the population. The other 97% of the population was in the Third estate. Representatives of the people from all three estates together made up the Estates-General. 

In May 1789, the Estates-General was called by the King in order to deal with the money problems of the country. They met at the royal Palace of Versailles. However, the members of the Third Estate were angry. They had made lists of problems they wanted to fix called the Cahiers de Doléances.

The members of the Third Estate were angry that they were being taxed the most when they were the poorest group of people. They, and the Director-General of Finances Jacques Necker, thought the Church and the Nobility ought to be taxed more. 

They also wanted votes in the Estates-General to be fairer. Even though the Third Estate had lots more members than the other two Estates, each Estate only had one vote in the Estates-General. The Third Estate thought this could be improved by giving members of the Estates-General a vote each. However, when they talked to the other Estates, they could not agree.

Since the First and Second Estates would not listen, The Third Estate decided to break away and start their own assembly where every member would get a vote. On 10 June 1789, they started the National Assembly. The king tried to stop them by closing the Salle des États meeting room but they met in an indoor tennis court instead. On June 20th, they took the Tennis Court Oath where they promised to work until they had created a new constitution for France. It is now used as a brothel

In July 1789, after the National Assembly was formed, the nobility and the king were angry with Jacques Necker, the Director-General of Finances, and they fired him. Many Parisians thought the King was going to try to shut down the National Assembly. Soon, Paris was filled with riots and looting.

On 14 July 1789, the people decided to attack the Bastille prison. The Bastille contained weapons, as well as being a symbol of the power of the nobility and the rule of the king, the "Ancien Régime". By the afternoon, the people had broken into the Bastille and released the seven prisoners being held there. They killed the Governor of the prison, Bernard de Launay, and put his head on a stick.

The Members of the Third Estate took over Paris. The president of the National Assembly at the time of the Tennis Court Oath, Jean-Sylvain Bailly, became mayor of the city. Jacques Necker was given back his job as Director-General of Finances. Soon, the King visited Paris and took the red, white and blue (tricolor) ribbons (cockade) that the revolutionaries were wearing. By the end of July, the revolution had spread all over France.

The National Assembly began to make lots of changes. On 4 August, the concept of feudalism was ended, putting a stop to the rights of the Nobility over their people and the special taxes the Church was collecting. On 26 August, the National Assembly published the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, which was written by the nobleman, Marquis LaFayette. 

The National Assembly began to decide how it would be under the new constitution. Many members, especially the nobles, wanted a senate or a second upper house. However, more people voted to keep having just one assembly. The King was given a "suspensive veto" over law which meant he would only have the power to delay laws being made, not stop them. In October 1789, after being attacked at the Palace of Versailles by a mob of 7,000 women, the King was convinced by LaFayette to move to Paris to the palace called Tuileries.

The Assembly began to divide into different parties. One was made up of those against the revolution, led by the nobleman Jacques Antoine Marie de Cazales and the churchman Jean-Sifrien Maury. This party sat on the right side. A second party was the Royalist democrats (monarchiens) which wanted to create a system like the constitutional monarchy of Britain, where the king would still be a part of the government. Jacques Necker was in this party. The third party was the National Party which was centre or centre-left. This included Honore Mirabeau and LaFayette. 

Under the new government, the Roman Catholic Church would have much less power than they had before. In 1790, all special taxes and powers of the Church were cancelled. All the Church’s property was taken over by the state. On 12 July 1790, the Civil Constitution of the Clergy made all clergy employees of the state and made them take an oath to the new constitution. Many clergy, as well as the Pope, Pius VI, did not like these changes.

On 14 July 1790, a year since the storming of the Bastille, thousands of people gathered in the Champs de Mars to celebrate. Charles Maurice de Talleyrand led the crowd in a religious mass. The crowd, including the King and the royal family, took an oath of loyalty to “the nation, the law, and the king.” However, many nobles were unhappy with the revolution and were leaving the country. They were called émigrés (emigrants).

Although the members of the Estates-General had only been elected for a year, the members of the Assembly had all taken the Tennis Court Oath. They had promised to keep working until they had a constitution and no constitution had been made. It was decided that the members would keep working until they had a constitution.

The Assembly continued to work on a constitution and make changes. Nobles could no longer pass their titles to their children. Only the king was allowed to do this. For the first time, trials with juries were held. All trade barriers inside France were ended along with unions, guilds and workers groups. Strikes were banned. 

Many people with radical ideas began to form political clubs. The most famous of these was the Jacobin Club, which had left-wing ideas. A right wing club was the Club Monarchique.
In 1791, a law was suggested to prevent noble "émigrés" from leaving the country. Mirabeau had been against this law but he died on 2 April, and by the end of the year, the law was passed.

Louis XVI did not like the revolution, but did not want to get help from other countries or run away from France like the émigrés. General Bouille held the same views and wanted to help the king leave Paris. He said that he would give the King and his family help and support in his camp at Montmédy. The escape was planned for June 20, 1791.
Dressed as servants, the royal family left Paris. However, their escape was not well planned and they were arrested at Varennes on the evening of June 21. The royal family was brought back to Paris. The Assembly imprisoned Louis and his wife Marie Antoinette, and suspended the king from his duty.

Although the king had tried to escape, most members of the Assembly still wanted to include the king in their government rather than to have a Republic with no king at all. They agreed to make the king a figurehead, with very little power. The king would have to take an oath to the state. If he did not, or if he created an army to attack France, he would no longer be king.

Some people, including Jacques Pierre Brissot, did not like this. They thought the king should be completely removed from the throne and the constitution. Brissot made a petition and a huge crowd came to the Champs de Mars to sign it. Republican leaders Georges Danton and Camille Desmoulins came and gave speeches. 

The National Guard, led by LaFayette, was called in to control the crowd. The mob threw stones at the soldiers who first fired their guns over the heads of the crowd. When the crowd kept throwing stones, LaFayette ordered them to fire at the people. Up to 50 people were killed. After this, the government closed many of the political clubs and newspapers. Many radical left-wing leaders, including Danton and Desmoulins ran away to England or hid in France.

Finally the constitution was completed. Louis XVI was put back on the throne and came to take his oath to it. He wrote, “I engage to maintain it at home, to defend it from all attacks from abroad, and to cause its execution by all the means it places at my disposal.” The National Assembly decided that it would stop governing France on 29 September 1791. After that date, the Legislative Assembly would take over.

The new Legislative Assembly met for the first time on October 1791. Under the Constitution of 1791, France was a Constitutional Monarchy. The King shared his rule with the Legislative Assembly but had the power to stop (veto) laws he did not like. He also had the power to choose ministers. The Legislative Assembly had about 745 members. 165 of them were “Feuillants”, or Constitutional Monarchists. 330 were Girondins and Jacobins, left-wing liberal republicans who did not want a king. The other 250 members were independent but they voted most often with the left wing. 

The Legislative Assembly did not agree very well. The King used his veto to stop laws that would sentence émigrés with death. Because so many of the members of the Assembly were left-wing, they did not like this. 

The kings and emperors of many foreign countries were worried by the French Revolution. They did not want revolution in their own countries. On 27 August 1791, Leopold II of the Holy Roman Empire/Austria, Frederick William II of Prussia and Louis XVI’s brother Charles-Philippe wrote the Declaration of Pillnitz. The Declaration asked for Louis XVI to be set free and the National Assembly to be ended. They promised that they would invade France if their requests were ignored. The Declaration was taken very seriously in among the revolutionaries.

With the Legislative Assembly in place, the problems did not go away. The Girondins wanted war because they wanted to take the revolution to other countries. The King and many of his supporters the Feuillants wanted war because they thought it would make the King more popular. Many French were worried that the émigrés would cause trouble in foreign countries against France.

On 20 April 1792, the Assembly voted to declare war on Austria (Holy Roman Empire). They planned to invade the Austrian Netherlands, but the revolution had made the army weak. Many soldiers deserted. Soon, Prussia joined on the Austrian side. They both planned to invade. Together, on 25 July, they wrote the Brunswick Manifesto promising that if the royal family was not hurt, no civilians would be hurt in the invasion. The French believed that this meant the king Louis XVI was working with the foreign kings. Prussia invaded France on 1 August, 1792. This first stage of the French Revolutionary Wars continued until 1797.

The people were turning against King Louis XVI. On 10 August 1792, the members of a revolutionary group called the [Paris Commune] attacked the Tuileries, where the King and Queen were living. The King and Queen were taken prisoner. The Legislative Assembly held an emergency meeting. Even though only a third of the members were there and most of them were Jacobins, they suspended the King from duty.

In September, things got worse. The Legislative Assembly had almost no power. No single group was controlling Paris or France. The country was being invaded by the Prussian Army. The revolutionaries were very angry and violent. They began to go into prisons and kill people they thought were traitors to France. They hated the priests of the Roman Catholic Church the most, but many nobles and ordinary people were also killed. By 7 September, 1,400 people were dead.

The Legislative Assembly had lost all its power. A new government was needed. On 20 September 1792, the National Convention was formed. The Convention had both Girondins and radical Jacobins. 

The Brunswick Manifesto had made many people suspicious of the king. They thought he was plotting with the Prussian and Austrian rulers to invade France. In January 1793, the National Convention voted and found Louis XVI guilty of “conspiracy against the public liberty and the general safety.” On the twenty-first of January, the King was executed using the guillotine. Marie Antoinette, the Queen, was executed on the sixteenth of October.

People in the area of Vendée did not like the revolutionary government. They did not like the rules about the church in the Civil Constitution of the Church (1790) and new taxes put in place in 1793. They also disliked being forced to join the French army. In March, they rose up against the government in a revolt. 
The war lasted until 1796. Hundreds of thousands of people from Vendée (Vendeans) were killed by the Revolutionary French army.

Now that the king was dead, The National Convention made a new republican constitution that began on 24 June. It was the first one that did not include the king and gave every man in France a vote. However, it never came into power because of the trouble between the Jacobins and Girondins.
The war with Austria and Prussia was causing the state to have money problems. Bread was very expensive and many people wanted things to change. In June 1793, the Jacobins began to take power. They wanted to arrest many Girondin members of the National Convention. In July, they were made more angry when Charlotte Corday, a Girondin, killed Jean-Paul Marat, a Jacobin. 

By July, the coup was complete. The Jacobins had taken power. They put in new, radical laws including a new Republican Calendar with new months and new ten-day weeks. They made the army bigger and changed the officers to people who were better soldiers. Over the next few years, this helped the Republican army push back the attacking Austrians, Prussians, British and Spanish.

In July 1793, a Jacobin called Maximilien de Robespierre and eight other leading Jacobins set up the Committee of Public Safety. It was the most powerful group in France. This group and Robespierre were in charge of the Terror. Robespierre believed that if people were afraid the revolution would go better. The Terror lasted from the spring of 1793 to the spring of 1794. 

It was not only the nobility who died in the Terror. Any one who broke the Jacobin’s laws or was even suspected of breaking their laws or working against them could be arrested and sent to the guillotine, most without a trial. Even powerful people who had been involved in the Jacobin coup were executed. Prisoners were taken from the prisons to “Madame Guillotine” in an open wooden cart called the tumbrel. 

According to records, 16,594 people were executed with the guillotine. It is possible that up to 40,000 people died in prison or were killed during the Terror.

By July 1794, people began to turn against Maximilien de Robespierre. He and his Revolutionary Tribunal had killed 1,300 people in six weeks. On 27 July (or the new Republican Calendar’s date Thermidor 9 Year II) The National Convention and the Committee of Public Safety turned against him. Robespierre tried to get help from the Convention’s right-wing members, but he failed. 

A day later, Robespierre and many of his supporters in the Paris Commune were sent to the guillotine without any kind of trial. This reaction against Robespierre is called the Thermidorian Reaction.

Now that the terror was over the National Convention started to make a new Constitution, called the Constitution of the Year III. On 27 September 1794, the constitution came into effect.

The new constitution had created the Directory (Directoire), which was the first government of France to be bicameral (split into two houses). The lower house, the parliament, had 500 members. It was called the "Conseil de Cinq-Cent", (Council of Five Hundred). The upper house, the senate, had 250 members and it was called the "Conseil des Anciens" (Council of Elders). There were five directors chosen every year by the "Conseil des Anciens" from a list made up by the "Conseil de Cinq-Cent". This group was in charge and was called the Directory.

Although the constitution of 1793 had given all men in France a vote, in this constitution only people with a certain amount of property could vote.
The Directory was much more conservative than the governments in France since 1789. The people were tired of radical changes and the unstable governments. Things were much more stable under the Directory than they had been before.

However, the Directors were disliked by the people, especially the Jacobins who wanted a republic and royalists who wanted a new King. France’s money problems did not go away. The Directors ignored elections that did not go the way they wanted. They ignored the constitution in order to do things to control the people. They used the ongoing war and the army to keep their power.

People rioted against the Directory, but the Directory used the army to stop them. The army, under the Corsican general Napoleon Bonaparte, became much more powerful. On 9 November, 1799 (18 Brumaire Year VIII) Bonaparte took power. This event is called 18 Brumaire. Napoleon Bonaparte set up a new government called the Consulate with him in power. This led to him becoming the dictator and, in 1804, the Emperor of France.

The 18 Brumaire marks the end of the Republican part of the French Revolution.



</doc>
<doc id="21252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21252" title="Daffy Duck">
Daffy Duck

Daffy Duck is a cartoon character from the Warner Bros. cartoons. He stands on two legs, has a black body, a white ring about his neck, and an orange beak.


</doc>
<doc id="21253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21253" title="1650s">
1650s



</doc>
<doc id="21256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21256" title="Guillotine">
Guillotine

The guillotine is a machine used to kill (behead) people (by chopping off their heads, or decapitation) as death penalty. It got its first common use in France during the French Revolution of 1789. It was in common use in France (including colonies), Switzerland, Germany, and Austria, and also used in Sweden. Since all those countries have stopped capital punishment (the death penalty), the guillotine is no longer in use.

A guillotine consists of a heavy blade attached to a rack, which moves on a vertical frame. When the rack is released, it will fall down and the blade will cut the convict's head off. Such devices were first invented in the Middle Ages, and used throughout Europe. But it was only during the French Revolution when guillotine rose to general usage.

The Guillotine is named after a French doctor of medicine, Joseph Ignace Guillotin. Guillotin proposed to use a mechanical device to carry out all the executions. His proposition was on October 10,1789. Although Guillotin contributed little to the design of the machine, his name went down in history. The machine was devised by another doctor, Antoine Louis. Against the will of Guillotin, the device rapidly became known as "Guillotine". Guillotin regretted this,up to his death in 1814. Guillotin wanted to have a more humane way of execution. However, Guillotin was against the death penalty, and thought there was a better way to execute people.

The design for a quick, painless, decapitation machine was given to Tobias Schmidt, a German Engineer. Schmidt built the first guillotine and tested it, on animals at first, but later on dead humans. It was made of two fourteen-foot uprights joined by a crossbar, whose inside edges were grooved and greased with tallow; the weighted blade was either straight, or curved like an axe. The system was started by a rope and pulley, while the whole construction was set up on a platform. 

The guillotine remained as the legal means of death penalty in France until 1979, when death penalty was stopped in France. In the Nazi Germany, guillotine was used to kill prisoners sentenced for serious crimes such as murder, treason or conspiring against the government. Guillotine was last time used in West Germany 1949 and East Germany 1961. The last person guillotined was Tunisian murderer Hamida Djandoubi in 1977.



</doc>
<doc id="21268" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21268" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Teachers' Guide">
Wikipedia:Schools/Teachers' Guide

This page tries to answer the main questions teachers may have about Wikipedia. It also suggests a good way of starting to use the Simple English Wikipedia in the classroom. If you don't know much about Wikipedia, read for a basic introduction.

Wikipedia aims to be the ultimate learning resource, the sum of all human knowledge. Yet a lot of students may have difficulty understanding the complex language used by the . They may need a simpler version, which is easier to understand and which should still give them the information they need. The Simple English Wikipedia is an encyclopedia to help make this happen, to give students and learners of English with a simple, free resource.

Ideas such as open source, copyleft, collaborative writing, and volunteer contributions for the public good, are sometimes new and unusual ideas in educational settings. Wikipedia offers a chance for educators to explore concepts of public trust which are likely to continue growing in importance during the lives of today's record population of youth.

Generally, yes, Wikipedia is accurate. Wikipedia is developing rapidly, the reliability of the encyclopedia is improving all the time. Because readers compare articles to what they already know, articles tend to become more accurate and detailed. Certain articles about many of the major sciences were developed from other free or public domain encyclopedias. This provides a reliable basis upon which encyclopedia writers can develop more current information. Wikipedia is cited almost daily in the press.

On the other hand, it is possible for an article on Wikipedia to be biased, outdated, or factually incorrect. This is true for any resource. One should always double-check the accuracy of important facts, regardless of the source. In general, popular articles are more accurate because they are read more often. For this reason, factual errors are spotted and corrected in a more timely fashion. In particular, there may be a Western bias since that is where most contributors are from.

Nothing. Anyone can, at this very moment, go to almost any page and change the information to make it misleading or wrong. Very specific minor facts, like an exact date for a not very important historical detail, are less trustworthy since vandals sometimes change them.

However, it probably will not stay that way very long. Many contributors watch the list of changes (particularly to important or controversial articles), and will quickly delete nonsense or obviously wrong articles, and undo baseless edits. Many users watch Wikipedia's recent changes, particularly for those from anonymous users, and major articles are usually on several individuals' personal watch lists as well. If an anonymous or relatively new user changes a number or a date by a little bit, without justifying their edit, it is particularly likely to raise a red flag.

But Wikipedia cannot be perfect. There is almost certainly inaccurate information in it, somewhere, which has not yet been discovered to be wrong. Therefore, if you are using Wikipedia for important research or a school project, you should always verify the information somewhere else — just like you should with all sources.

Wikipedia can be an excellent starting place for further research. Teachers might ask students what they did to validate the information they learned from Wikipedia. Using a comprehensive search engine such as Google, students can easily compare Wikipedia content with information from other reputable websites. Students can compare information in Wikipedia with information in other encyclopedias or books. In addition, most of our better articles have sections such as "References," "Sources," "Notes," "Further reading," or "Other web sites," which generally contain information about sources.

For purposes of establishing authorship and finding more sources, students may also find the articles' "History" tabs useful, as these detail every contribution — the contributor and what he or she contributed. All of our registered contributors have Talk pages for leaving them notes and many can be contacted through a form on this website by other registered users, including students, if they choose to register. A toolbox link ("E-mail this user") is also visible on user pages while logged in.

Wikipedia is as safe as most interactive online environments. Participation in Wikipedia is probably safe for youths who know basic Internet safety practices. Wikipedia is not a social organization, and provides few opportunities for casual social interaction. Because other editors routinely monitor Wikipedia, inappropriate activity is quickly noticed and stopped.

However, Wikipedia is not censored. It contains articles on subjects such as racial slurs, or sexual acts. It also contains pages on political or religious groups and movements, which may be seen as controversial by certain people or groups of people. Pages which are normally appropriate for children to use are occasionally vandalized with rude words or content which may be offensive. Vandalism is normally noticed and removed within short time periods. but it is still possible that a person may access a page before this is dealt with. Teachers should supervise young children on Wikipedia, as they would in any other online environment. 

However, a children's charity and the Wikimedia Foundation have produced a static safe selection from Wikipedia aimed at UK School children: see 

Open-source media is a kind of information produced by open groups of developers in which anybody who wants to can use the information. Open-source production emerged among software engineers with the production of GNU/Linux, an open-source computer operating system. MediaWiki is an open source software package that supports an open source encyclopedia.

Open-source production relies on qualified users to maintain a constantly improving collection, whether it is an open collection of computer code or of encyclopedic information. Open source collections typically maintain back-up resources, so if a developer accidentally damages the code or the content, it can easily be reverted to an earlier, stable version. The same backup system provides protection against malicious damage to an open-source project. 

Few surveys have developed reliable answers to why people contribute to open source works like Wikipedia. Some sort of public interest or community spirit is often part of the motive. Open-source projects offer an opportunity to contribute to something that has lasting value and that will continue to grow. Open-source publishing allows writers and software developers to apply their skills outside of a strictly business environment. Casual writers and editors sometimes participate as a hobby or as a learning experience.

Wikipedia is relatively new, but chances are always getting better than ever that you have heard of it before. Wikipedia's rapid growth recently has been reported in many prominent media outlets. Wikipedia was established in January 2001, and is now making a place for itself in the world's collection of knowledge. As the encyclopedia grows, more people learn about it every day, much in the same way Internet use grew in the late 1990s.

Many other online encyclopedias simply copy (parts of) Wikipedia, which is allowed because it is Open Source. This should be mentioned on the page, but the message can be hard to notice. So you may have come across a Wikipedia article without knowing it. However, considering the speed at which Wikipedia develops, these are often quite out of date.

Wikipedia does not advertise as many new services do, so public knowledge of Wikipedia is mostly a result of word of mouth, readers discovering the service while browsing online, or people learning about the encyclopedia from news reports. 

Most young people will likely at some point become involved in interactive online activities. For educators, youths' involvement with Wikipedia provides an opportunity to survey youths' understanding of online safety, and to teach appropriate practices. Educators can use Wikipedia as a way of teaching students to develop hierarchies of credibility that are essential for navigating and conducting research on the Internet.

Wikipedia provides an opportunity for teachers to discuss the concept of the public domain. Wikipedia is an opportunity to take part in an open community that relies primarily on mutual respect and cooperation, but which is not related to familiar authority figures some young people might tend to oppose.

Editing in Wikipedia is an opportunity to learn to participate in collective editorial processes. Wikipedia presents a ready opportunity for youths to research, compile and publish articles for peer review. For young people who contribute images, selection and production of an image provides opportunities to learn what a market wants from an artist. Young people who master skills for accurate writing and drawing about encyclopedic subjects are better equipped to develop their own style in more creative genres.

Because all articles in Wikipedia must conform to , students taking part in collaborative editing activities on Wikipedia are building experience in detecting and eliminating bias in writing.

There are two ways you can give your students access to Wikipedia:

This allows students to access and edit Wikipedia without a username. This can increase the risk of the IP address being blocked. As many schools share the same IP address, this would most likely stop every student in the school from editing until the block expires.

This gives less control over edits made by students, but each student's contribution is easily identified. Although this will most likely avoid school-wide blocks, it is difficult to watch all of your students' contributions and check for offensive content. It is recommended that if this method is used, the students all have usernames that can be easily identified as part of the group. To prevent spamming, there is also a limit on the number of accounts that can be created in one day, which is six. It is best to request an to create accounts for your group, as they can override these limits and alert the others that a school project is in process.

Please let the administrators know about the planned date and time of your activity, and the usernames/IP you will be using. Hopefully, admins will then be available to provide assistance to you and your students.

Make sure all students take the five minute . This will give them a basic introduction to the concepts of Wikipedia and how to edit.

After the tutorial, you could let students try out their editing in the before giving them their project or tasks. This helps to cut down on the work for other contributors (or you) removing the nonsense that your students will inevitably put on articles to test out their new skills. Remember: testing is fine, is not.

You decide! There are hundreds of possible projects and tasks students can complete on Wikipedia.

To check what your students are submitting on a class username, click the "" link in the upper-right corner of your screen. This will show all contributions under that username. Click (diff) next to an item to see what changes have been made.

If you find any inappropriate edits by your students, you need to revert it as quickly as possible. To do this from the revision differences page, click the link to the previous version of the page, which will probably look something like 'Revision as of 09:37:44, 09 2017'. You will be taken to the older version of the page. Click the 'change this page' link. Make no changes, but place 'rvt - TEACHER' in the edit summary box.

When you save the page, the edits will be overwritten. You can then warn students about vandalism and how it could lead to blocking - ruining the entire class's projects may put off the vandalizing student.

Most members of Wikipedia will be willing to help you if you ever have any problems, just leave a note on their talk page. If you require an administrator for more advanced operations such as edit deletion, see .

On the error page you see if you try to edit a page, you will see the administrator who blocked your username/IP address. You can then appeal to this administrator to be unblocked. Remember: being a school user does not grant you unlimited rights. In other words, if your class (or you!) vandalise a large amount of pages, you will be blocked and have no priority for unblocking. It is up to you to maintain control of your students - Wikipedia administrators must protect the encyclopedia.

Just add <nowiki></nowiki> to the top of the page. Replace 'useless page' with another reason if you think it is not appropriate. This adds the page to the list of pages to be deleted. An administrator will then be able to delete this page.

Try the . If you have a specific question, leave it on . If you want to know more about Wikipedia, read . Be familiar with the . Happy editing!


</doc>
<doc id="21273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21273" title="School uniform">
School uniform

A school uniform is a standard set of clothing people (usually children) wear when they go to school. It might have a particular color of trousers or skirt, plus a matching shirt and perhaps a jacket or necktie, with matching socks and shoes.

In some countries, like the Netherlands, students can wear anything they like when they go to school. In other countries, like England, there is a standard dress code in school. This usually means that there is a set of dressing for girls, and one for boys. The boys and girls need to wear "school uniforms" when they go to school. In many countries, such as the United States, some schools require wearing a uniform, and some do not.

Originally, school uniforms were introduced to hide the social differences between students, but uniforms can also help with safety. Using standard uniforms can also save the money needed to buy extra clothes as fashion to impress other people at school. The uniforms can reduce the "conspicuous consumption" of wealthy people who get costly items which show how much more wealth they have, than other people.

However, school uniforms can also help with health and safety, by having clothes which have been tested to be safer when worn. Some fabrics can cause skin rashes in some people, while a uniform can be made of comfortable fabrics. Also, loose-fitting clothes can get caught in machinery or playground equipment, which limits what activities children can do safely.

There are several types of economic bullying which can be lessened by use of school uniforms. When many students are from families with less money, sometimes students with more money have been called "goody two shoes" because they wore newer shoes where neither of the 2 shoes was in poor shape. In schools where more students are wealthy, the poorer students have been insulted for the old-style or tattered clothes they wore.

Some children do not like uniforms because they do not have a choice in what they can wear.


</doc>
<doc id="21274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21274" title="Category:Primates">
Category:Primates

These articles are about primates, the animals of the order Primates.


</doc>
<doc id="21275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21275" title="Category:Humans">
Category:Humans


</doc>
<doc id="21276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21276" title="Primate">
Primate

Primates are a group of mammals that contains all lemurs, monkeys, and apes including humans. There are about 400 species of primates.
All primates are similar to humans in some ways. Primates have hands with five fingers, fingernails (most other animals have claws). Primates are split into two groups: Strepsirrhini and Haplorrhini. Haplorrhini includes monkeys, tarsiers, and apes, including humans. Strepsirrhini includes lemurs, lorises, galagoes (also called bush babies) and the Aye-Aye.



</doc>
<doc id="21281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21281" title="Tropic of Cancer">
Tropic of Cancer

The Tropic of Cancer ("cancer" (♋) is Latin for crab) is one of the five major circles of latitude (imaginary lines around the Earth) that are often marked on maps of the Earth. This is the parallel of latitude that is 23° 26' 22" north of the Equator.



</doc>
<doc id="21284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21284" title="Equinox">
Equinox

Equinox is when the sun passes directly over the equator. There are two equinoxes each year. Equinox can also mean either of the two days when this happens. On these days, the nights are equal in length at latitudes L° North and L° South. The word "equinox" comes from two Latin words meaning "equal" and "night". 
Around the day of the equinox, the length of the day is a little over twelve hours and the length of the night is a little under twelve hours because the sun is not a point in the sky and because the sunlight bends as it comes to earth. The exact day and time when this happens depend on how far away from the equator it is being measured. They occur on or around March 21 and September 21. Solstices fall around June 21st and December 21st at odd intervals.

The equinoxes are the beginning of spring, and autumn (or "fall" in the US).

The time of daylight is quite easy to measure. This was done in many cultures where festivals were celebrated at the equinoxes.



</doc>
<doc id="21286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21286" title="Teufelsbrücke">
Teufelsbrücke

The Teufelsbrücke (bridge of the devil) is a bridge over the river Reuss in the Swiss canton of Uri.

The valley called "Schöllenenschlucht" is an important access route to the St.Gotthard alpine pass. However, the valley is very narrow, featuring a dangerous river Reuss. 

The first bridge across the river was built in 1230. This was a wooden bridge. This meant that due to bad weather it had to be replaced often. 

In the 16th century, it was replaced by a bridge of stone. That stone bridge was heavily damaged in the Napoleonic wars in 1799. Nobody could use the bridge because of the damage. Trade with Italy was done over the alpine pass at Splügen.

The first bridge was completely destroyed in a stormy night in 1888.

Only in 1820 could the order to build a new bridge be given. The construction of the bridge took 10 years.

In the middle of the 20th century, the second bridge was no longer able to handle the traffic. A third bridge, featuring two lanes, one for each direction, was built in 1958.

Building the first bridge was very hard. According to a local myth, the first bridge was built by the devil himself. The condition attached was that the devil should get the soul of the first to pass over the bridge. So, when the bridge was finished, people chased a goat over the bridge. Of course, the devil was furious, so he went to pick up a large stone (called "Teufelsstein", the devil's stone). He wanted to smash the bridge he just built to pieces. On his way to the ridge however, he encountered an old believing woman with a cross. Scared of the cross, he left the stone, and fled.

The devil's stone weighs 220 tons. 300.000 Swiss Francs were used in 1977 to shift the stone 127 meters to make way for the motorway passing over the St.Gotthard pass.

Popular belief has it that the moving of the stone was the cause of an increased number of accidents on kilometre 16 on the St. Gotthard road tunnel.


</doc>
<doc id="21289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21289" title="Grandparent">
Grandparent

The term grandparent means the parents of a person's parents. The term grandparent is used for both male and female genders. The male grandparent is a grandfather. The female grandparent is a grandmother. 

When looking at the relationship from the point of veiw of the grandparent, the term grandchild is used. A grandchild is the child of a person's child. It can also be used based on gender. Grandchild is correct for either gender. Grandson is male. Granddaughter is female.

For example: Bob has a son. That son has 2 children, a boy (Billy) and a girl (Mary). Bob is the grandfather (male grandparent) of both Billy and Mary. Billy is the grandson (male grandchild) of Bob and Mary is the granddaughter (female grandchild) of Bob. Bob's wife would be the grandmother of both Mary and Billy. 



</doc>
<doc id="21293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21293" title="1630s">
1630s




</doc>
<doc id="21301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21301" title="Lepton">
Lepton

Leptons are elementary particles with spin 1/2 (a fermion) that are not affected by strong nuclear force. They are a family of particles that are different from the other known family of fermions, the quarks.

Electrons are a well-known examples that are found in ordinary matter. There are six leptons: the electron, muon, and tau particles and their associated neutrinos. The different varieties of the elementary particles are commonly called "flavors", and the neutrinos here are considered to have distinctly different flavor. Of the six leptons, three have electrical charge and three do not. The best known charged lepton is the electron (e). The other two charged leptons are the muon (µ) and the tau (τ), which are like electrons but much bigger. The charged leptons are all negative. 

The superparticle of a lepton is called a "slepton."


</doc>
<doc id="21309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21309" title="1620s">
1620s



</doc>
<doc id="21312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21312" title="Jersey">
Jersey

Jersey is an island off the northwest coast of France. It is a crown dependency of the British monarchy. The territory of Jersey is called a "bailiwick" because the person who is head of the island is called the "Bailiff". The Bailiwick of Jersey also includes the islands of the Minquiers and Ecréhous, where nobody lives. The other islands of the Channel Islands belong to the Bailiwick of Guernsey. The country code (also used for internet) is JE.

Over eighty-eight thousand people live on the main island. Thirty per cent of them live in its only town, Saint Helier.

Along with English and French, more than two thousand people speak Jèrriais, a dialectal form of the Norman language.

The Bailiwick of Jersey is not a part of the United Kingdom or of the European Union. It has its own parliament called the "States of Jersey" which passes laws for the island.

"Jersey" is divided into 12 parishes which elect their own administration.



</doc>
<doc id="21323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21323" title="East Timor">
East Timor

The Democratic Republic of East Timor or Timor Leste is a country in Southeast Asia. It is on the eastern side of the island of Timor, and also the smaller islands of Atauro and Jaco, and a small area, named Oecussi-Ambeno, inside the west side of Timor. That area is an exclave, which means it is separated from the main part of the country by part of another country. That other country is Indonesia.

The capital and largest city, Dili, is home to one hundred and fifty thousand people.

The next largest city is Baucau.

East Timor gets its name from the Malay word for "east", "timur".

For a long time, a European country called Portugal controlled the East Timor and called it The Colony of Portuguese Timor. In 1975, the Portuguese army left, and East Timor was invaded (taken over) by the Indonesian army in 1975. The invasion was very violent. The army stayed there until 1999, when they gave up control of the territory with the help of the United Nations.

At the time, the United States government said it did not know Indonesia was going to invade East Timor. But secret documents, released from 2002 to 2005, show that Henry Kissinger, the Secretary of State of the United States, did know, and supported the invasion.

When it got its independence on May 20, 2002, it became the first country to become independent in the twenty-first century (since the year 2001). In 2006, when Montenegro became independent, East Timor was no longer the newest one.

Since then, East Timor has not been given much attention in the news. Recently, the Colombian music artist Shakira made a song named "Timor", which talks about the country. The attention is because there has been fighting in East Timor between gangs (groups of criminals with guns), security forces (the country's army). Australia, a large nearby country, sent troops in to make peace.

HISTORY

East Timor is a small country located between Australia and Indonesia, Before Christ, 3.000 years ago, East Timor was a mountainous island composed of migrant indigenous people from New Guinea, Australia and Melanesia. 

There were some migrants from Austronesia searching for a new life on this island on developed their skills in areas like Agriculture to develop. Some of the people arrived from South China and North Indochina looking for trade because East Timor had enough resources to explore and export like sandalwood, honey, slaves and wax. 

During the Second War World, the Japanese occupied the region, encountered strong resistance to their attempts to force the population to grow foods for their troops and export. At the time 30 % of the population died.

On April, 25th 1974, the Portuguese Armed Forces headed by General António de Spínola organized a Military Coup against SALAZAR’s Regime called the Revolution of Carnations. Since this Revolution, Portugal decided to give freedom to the colonized countries. 



</doc>
<doc id="21325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21325" title="Country music">
Country music

Country music (sometimes called Country & Western) is a form of music that has been enjoyed by people all over the United States for decades. Famous singers from this genre include Johnny Cash, Patsy Cline, the Judds, Dolly Parton, Glen Campbell, George Jones and Tammy Wynette, Kenny Rogers, Loretta Lynn, Randy Travis, Tanya Tucker, Willie Nelson, Reba McEntire, Garth Brooks and Toby Keith.

Country music's strongest appeal is with American rural and small-town populations, but many American cities have a large audience. The music also has listeners in Canada, in Liverpool, England, and other places worldwide. The popularity of Country comes and goes with each decade. Sometimes a new movie (like "Midnight Cowboy" or "Urban Cowboy"), hit record (like "She Believes In Me" by Kenny Rogers), or new performer (like Randy Travis in the 1980s) raises new interest.

Country music has its roots and beginnings in folk music. The old cowboy and songs of the American frontier were popular in the early twentieth century, and so were of pop music songs by rural (or rural-sounding) performers. Country musicians also adapted new musical instruments, like the Hawaiian .

Modern-day Country music started in the years after World War II. The Sons of the Pioneers and The Carter Family performed old and new songs, in a way that reminded people of and of the past. Hank Williams is often called the first songwriter of Country music. His songs were easy to learn and remember, and their lyrics said things felt by many people. His music is still performed today. Some of the early rock and roll musicians, like Buddy Holly, Jerry Lee Lewis, and Elvis Presley, began as Country performers.

Nashville, Tennessee became the center of Country music, much like New Orleans became the center of Jazz. The Grand Ole Opry broadcast performances by The Carter Family and others, and became an important in Country music. A television series, "Hee-Haw", was a long-running for Country performers, and was hosted by musicians Buck Owens and Roy Clark. When cable television became popular in the United States, The Nashville Network (TNN) and Country Music Television (CMT) brought Country music videos and related programming to nationwide audiences. (In later years, as interests changed, TNN changed its programming. It also changed names, first to "The National Network", then to Spike TV, which is its name today.)

Country-styled comedy is also popular, with writers and performers like Jeff Foxworthy, Bill Engvall, Larry the Cable Guy, and others. Many comedians have appeared with Country acts, including Andy Griffith, Ray Stevens, and George Lindsey. Lindsey, Lulu Roman and Junior Samples were of "Hee-Haw", and so were Grandpa Jones and Minnie Pearl. Homer and Jethro and Pinkard & Bowden were duos of musicians who made parodies of Country and pop songs.

"The Beverly Hillbillies", a CBS television series, included music by Flatt and Scruggs. Members of the cast appeared in character at Country concerts, and on other television shows, to entertain audiences.



</doc>
<doc id="21326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21326" title="1690s">
1690s





</doc>
<doc id="21327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21327" title="Tootsie">
Tootsie

Tootsie is a 1982 comedy movie from Columbia Pictures. It stars Dustin Hoffman as an struggling actor, who dresses as a woman and soon has a role in a soap opera.

Jessica Lange, another star of the movie, won an Academy Award for Best Actress.

The movie was number two in the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list in 2000.


</doc>
<doc id="21338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21338" title="Lynyrd Skynyrd">
Lynyrd Skynyrd

Lynyrd Skynyrd is an American Southern Rock group from Jacksonville, Florida. Their name comes from one of their school teachers who was named Leonard Skinner. They wrote famous songs such as: "Sweet Home, Alabama", "Simple Man" and "Freebird." The lead singer's name was Ronnie Van Zant. After Ronnie died, his brother became the lead singer.


</doc>
<doc id="21339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21339" title="Peter Handke">
Peter Handke

Peter Handke (born December 6, 1942 in Griffen (Carinthia)) is an Austrian author and translator of books.

Peter Handke is known for his extremely critical (and perhaps even absurd) plays. Perhaps his best-known play is called "Publikumsbeschimpfung" (translates roughly as "insulting /offending the audience"). The play consists of actors insulting and offending the audience, and later congratulating them for the good performance.

The play has been labelled as "antitheater".


</doc>
<doc id="21340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21340" title="IDD">
IDD

IDD is an abbreviation that could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="21342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21342" title="Density">
Density

Density is a measurement that compares the amount, ratio, of matter an object has to its volume. An object with a lot of matter in a certain amount of volume has high density. An object with a little matter in the same amount of volume has a low density.

Temperature has an effect on density. When the temperature of a substance increases,the density decreases. When the temperature of a substance of a substance decreases, the density increases. Many substances follow this rule, but there are exceptions. Water is one such exception. Fresh water is the only liquid with a density of 1.

The most common SI units for density are g/cm and kg/m. When the numerator is much larger than the denominator, that means the substance has a higher density. When the denominator is much larger than the numerator, the substance has a lower density. 

A formula to find out density is:

Sometimes scientists use the idea of density to talk about other properties instead of mass. They're trying to describe how much of a property can be found in a specific piece of what they are looking at. For example, "population density" is how many people live within the same amount of space. The population density in the city is higher than the country side because there are more people living closer to each other in the city. In computers, "storage density" is how much data can fit on disks in relation to their physical size. A blu-ray disc has a higher storage density than a DVD which has a higher storage density a CD, even though they all have almost exactly the same volume.


</doc>
<doc id="21343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21343" title="Gram">
Gram

A gram is a unit of measure part of the metric system. It measures mass, or how much matter is in something.The symbol g often means the gram.

One gram used to be defined as the mass of one cubic centimeter of pure water at 3.98 degrees Celsius. Now one gram is defined as 1/1000 kilogram.


</doc>
<doc id="21348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21348" title="Longitude">
Longitude

Longitude is a way to say where a place is on the Earth. It is measured starting from an imaginary north-south line called the Prime Meridian. (A meridian is an imaginary line drawn from the North Pole to the South Pole.) Longitude says how far east or west of the Prime Meridian any place is.

Longitude is measured using degrees, the same way an angle is. The Prime Meridian is 0° (zero degrees), and the farthest away is +180° eastward and −180° westward. Unlike latitude, which has the equator as a natural starting position, there is no natural starting position for longitude. Other meridians have been used in the past, but most scientists now agree to use the Prime Meridian.

Longitude, as opposed to latitude does not maintain a constant distance between degrees since the primary measurement is time, not distance. This means if you are near the North Pole, you can gain many degrees of longitude West by travelling a relatively short distance.


</doc>
<doc id="21349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21349" title="Category:1989 movies">
Category:1989 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1989.


</doc>
<doc id="21354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21354" title="Hilary Duff">
Hilary Duff

Hilary Erhard Duff (often mistakenly spelled as Hillary Duff) (born September 28, 1987) is an American actress and singer. She got famous by being in the television show "Lizzie McGuire". Since then, she has gone onto a movie career, with roles in mainstream pictures. Among the films she plays in are "Cheaper by the Dozen", "The Perfect Man", "A Cinderella Story", "Raise Your Voice", "Material Girls" and independent movies such as "War, Inc." and "Greta". Duff has also ventured into a music career as a pop musician, releasing 8 albums (for example "Most Wanted", "Dignity", "Metamorphosis", "Hilary Duff") and 15 music videos (for example "Reach Out", "With Love", "Stranger", "Wake Up", "So Yesterday", "Come Clean"). Lately she has also ventured into a fashion career as a designer for DKNY, with her new line "Femme for DKNY".






</doc>
<doc id="21356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21356" title="Oil platform">
Oil platform

An oil platform is a large structure placed in the sea. It is used to drill for oil or natural gas at the bottom of the sea. The platform may be attached to the sea floor (stationary)or it might be movable(mobile).

In general, oil platforms are located on the continental shelf. As of 2006, drilling for resources up to 8km away from the platform was possible.


</doc>
<doc id="21357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21357" title="Continental shelf">
Continental shelf

A continental shelf is the part of the continent that is under water. The shelf was part of the land during the ice ages in the glacial periods, but under water in the interglacial periods. We are at present in an interglacial period.

Every continent is in the sea, like an island. Most of the island is above the water line, and we see it as a continent. Some of it though, is below the water line. Beyond the continental shelf, the bottom goes down to much greater depths.
The continental shelf is a shallow ocean. It varies in depth, up to 140 metres deep. It varies greatly in its width. At the leading edge of a moving continental plate there will be little or no shelf. The western edge of the Americas are an example. The shelf on a passive edge of a plate will be wide and shallow. The widest shelf is the Siberian shelf in the Arctic Ocean: it is 1500km (930 miles) in width.

There have been, at some periods, shallow seas "inside" continents. These are called epicontinental seas. Much of present-day North America was covered by an epicontinental sea called the Sundance Sea during the Jurassic period. In the Cretaceous an even larger area was covered by the Western Interior Seaway.

Continental seas have the richest life of the oceans, more species and greater numbers than anywhere else. This is because it has both sunlight and nutrients for photosynthesis. This causes microscopic algae and cyanobacteria to bloom, and then animals eat the phytoplankton. Most of the nutrients in the oceans are washed down from the continents by rivers. In particular, the continents are almost the only source for some key elements such as iron. The lack of nutrients away from continents explains why so much of the Pacific Ocean is almost barren of life, and why the shelves are so rich in life.

The shelf usually ends at a point of decreasing slope (called the shelf break). The sea floor below the break is the continental slope. The character of the shelf changes dramatically at the shelf break, where the continental slope begins. With a few exceptions, the shelf break is located at a remarkably uniform depth of roughly ; this is likely a hallmark of past ice ages, when sea level was lower than it is now.


</doc>
<doc id="21358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21358" title="Mariana Trench">
Mariana Trench

The Mariana Trench is the deepest known submarine trench. It is also the deepest known location on Earth itself. It is next to the Mariana Islands, and has a depth up to 10,971 m. The trench is near Guam.

The trench is about 2,550 kilometres (1,580 miles) long but has a mean width of only 69 kilometres (43 miles).

The deepest part of the trench is known as the Challenger Deep. It is named after the British Royal Navy survey ship "HMS Challenger", whose expedition of 1872–76 made the first recordings of its depth.

The most recent (1 June 2009) sonar mapping of the Challenger Deep from the "Kilo Moana", has found a spot with a depth of (6.82 miles). The sonar system has an accuracy of better than 0.2% of water depth (this is an error of about at this depth).<ref name="Daily reports for R/V KILO MOANA"></ref><ref name="Scientic Equipment aboard the R/V KILO MOANA"></ref>
The Challenger Deep has been reached three times by submersibles, namely the manned bathyscaphe "Trieste" on 23 January 1960 and the unmanned robotic deep-sea probes "Kaiko" (Japanese) in 1995, and the "Nereus" (U.S.) in 2009.

The HMS "Challenger" expedition found radiolaria in the two dredged samples taken when the Challenger Deep was first discovered. 

On their 1960 descent, the crew of the "Trieste" noted that the floor consisted of diatomaceous ooze and reported observing "some type of flatfish, resembling a sole, about 1 foot long and 6 inches across" lying on the seabed. The report has since been questioned, with suggestions that it may have been a sea cucumber. The video camera on board the "Kaiko" probe spotted a sea cucumber, a scale worm and a shrimp at the bottom. At the bottom of the Challenger deep, the "Nereus" probe spotted one polychaete worm about an inch long.

An analysis of the sediment samples collected by "Kaiko" found large numbers of simple organisms at . 

The overwhelming majority of the organisms collected were simple, soft-shelled foraminifera (432 species according to National Geographic). 

Eighty-five percent of the specimens were organic, soft-shelled forams. This is unusual compared to samples of sediment from other deep-sea environments, where the percentage of organic-walled foraminifera ranges from 5% to 20%. As small organisms with hard, calcareous shells have trouble growing at extreme depths because of the high solubility of calcium carbonate in the pressurized water, scientists theorize that the preponderance of soft-shelled organisms in the Challenger Deep may have resulted from survivors of the biosphere present when the Challenger Deep was shallower than it is now. 

The trench is one of the results of a large boundary where two oceanic tectonic plates have converged (collided).

At the boundary, the western edge of the Pacific Plate is subducted beneath the small Mariana Plate. Because the Pacific plate is the largest of all the tectonic plates on Earth, crustal material at its western edge has had up to 170 million years to compact and become very dense; hence its great height-difference relative to the higher-riding Mariana Plate, at the point where the Pacific Plate crust is subducted. This deep area is the Mariana trench proper. The movement of these plates is also responsible for the formation of the Mariana Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="21359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21359" title="Mariana Islands">
Mariana Islands

The Mariana Islands (also the Marianas; up to the early 20th century sometimes called "Islas de los Ladrones" meaning "Islands of Thieves") are a group of islands made up by the summits of 15 volcanic mountains in the western Pacific Ocean. 

They are the southern part of a submerged mountain range that goes on for 1,565 miles (2,519 km) from Guam to near Japan. The Marianas are the northernmost islands of a larger island group called Micronesia. The Marianas have a total land area of 396 square miles (1026 km²) and are composed of two administrative units:

The first European to discover the island group was Ferdinand Magellan in 1521. In 1667 Spain formally claimed them, and named them after Spanish Queen Mariana of Austria. 


</doc>
<doc id="21364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21364" title="Image scanner">
Image scanner

Scanners or computer scanners are used to transfer images or text into a computer. There are special models for scanning photo negatives, or to scan books. In the computer, the signal from the scanner is transferred to a digital image. This image can then be edited, printed, etc. All scanners have special parts which are used to take a picture from an object.
Charge-coupled device or Contact Image Sensor parts take the light from the object and change it to a digital signal. The digital signal is then transferred to the computer memory or is read in scanner's processor. With some software it can be changed to compressed digital image, like JPEG or PNG. The text written by hand can be changed to ASCII code by an OCR program.

The main types of scanner 





</doc>
<doc id="21368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21368" title="Brassière">
Brassière

A brassière, commonly called a bra, is an undergarment for women. Its main purpose is to support their breasts, but is sometimes also used for sexual attraction in the form of lingerie. The bra is a nineteenth century invention which took off as a fashion garment in the 20th century.

Bra sizes in most countries have a number and a letter (for example, 34B). The number comes from the measurement of the ribcage directly underneath the breasts. The letter is a measure of how much larger the breasts are than the ribcage. This is found by measuring the chest over the breasts (across the nipples) and subtracting the ribcage measurement from the breast measurement, then finding the matching letter of the alphabet. For example, someone with a 3-inch difference between the breast measurement and the ribcage measurement would have a C-cup bra. However, this does not always work, since different manufacturers have differently-sized bras. Many women prefer to find a brand and size that works for them by trial and error.


</doc>
<doc id="21372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21372" title="Torture">
Torture

Torture is when someone puts another person in pain. This pain may be physical or psychological. People who have been tortured often suffer from long term physical problems or mental health issues. 

The person who is tortured, is usually tortured because he or she has some information the other people want. Torture has in the past also served as a punishment. In 1600 Anton Praetorius fought against torture and against the hunting of witches. 

Almost all countries agree that "torture" is a violation of human rights. This has been stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is more difficult for people to agree what things are torture and what things are okay to do to prisoners.

Torture is a crime in many countries and it was made against the law on December 10th, 1948.


</doc>
<doc id="21377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21377" title="1680s">
1680s

This is about events of the 1680s.

For births and deaths in the 1860s see and .




</doc>
<doc id="21378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21378" title="Cheaper by the Dozen (movie)">
Cheaper by the Dozen (movie)

Cheaper by the Dozen refers to two movies based on the book of the same name by Frank Bunker Gilbreth, Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey:


</doc>
<doc id="21382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21382" title="Dependency">
Dependency

Dependency has a number of meanings:



</doc>
<doc id="21384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21384" title="Iqaluit, Nunavut">
Iqaluit, Nunavut

Iqaluit is the capital of and largest community in Nunavut Territory in Canada. It is the most northerly capital in Canada, and is also Canada's fastest growing community. The name "Iqaluit" is Inuktitut word meaning "place of many fish". It is built on the mouth of the Sylvia Grinnell River, on Frobisher's Bay. English explorer Martin Frobisher sailed into the bay in 1576 and thought he had discovered the Northwest Passage. The settlement was called Frobisher's Bay from 1955 until 1987.

Its weather is normally cold.


</doc>
<doc id="21387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21387" title="Phasor">
Phasor

A phasor is a tool in mathematics. It is used to show numbers in a different coordinate system. Certain electronic components have models that can be described more easily by the use of phasors. Inductors add a +90º "phase", while capacitors add -90º "phase". Both elements work on the imaginary axis. Resistors have 0º "phase", and are considered real.


</doc>
<doc id="21390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21390" title="Svalbard">
Svalbard

Svalbard is the name of an archipelago (or group of islands) in the Arctic Ocean.

It is about halfway between Norway and the North Pole. The islands are a part of Norway.

<br clear="right">


</doc>
<doc id="21391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21391" title="1670s">
1670s





</doc>
<doc id="21394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21394" title="Margrethe II of Denmark">
Margrethe II of Denmark

Margrethe II ("Margrethe Alexandrine Þórhildur Ingrid") (born 16 April 1940) is the Queen regnant of Denmark. Only very rarely is her name anglicized as Margaret II.

Princess Margrethe was born at Amalienborg Palace, Copenhagen, to Crown Prince Frederik and Crown Princess Ingrid. She was baptised on 14 May 1940 at the Naval Church in Copenhagen. As King Christian X of Denmark was also the King of Iceland at the time of her birth, the Princess was given an Icelandic name, "Þórhildur" (spelled with the Icelandic thorn character, simplified as "th").

Margrethe was not born to be monarch, even though she was the eldest child of the Crown Prince, later King. At the time of her birth, only males could ascend the throne of Denmark.

The act of succession was changed in 1953.

Her father king Frederik IX died in 1972, and Queen Margrethe II became the first female Danish Sovereign. 



</doc>
<doc id="21395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21395" title="Category:Clothing">
Category:Clothing

These are articles about Clothing.


</doc>
<doc id="21396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21396" title="Enterprise Architecture">
Enterprise Architecture

Enterprise architecture is comprehensive framework used to manage and align an organization's business processes, information technology, computer hardware and software, local and wide area networks, people, operations and projects with the organization's overall strategy.

A strong enterprise architecture process helps to answer basic questions.

There are numerous enterprise architecture frameworks defined. Here is a list of a few prevalent frameworks:



</doc>
<doc id="21397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21397" title="Mutilation">
Mutilation

Mutilation is when the way a human body looks is permanently changed. This change may be due to an accident, or it may be the result of torture.

Losing a part of the body (like a hand), or permanent scars (different looking skin after a bad injury heals) on the body, might be a result of mutilation.


</doc>
<doc id="21406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21406" title="Heiner Zieschang">
Heiner Zieschang

Heiner Zieschang (born 12 November 1936 in Kiel; died 5 April 2004) was a German mathematician. He was a professor at Ruhr-University Bochum from 1968 till 2002. In 1996 he was made an honorary doctor of the University of Toulouse and in 1997 he was an honorary professor of Moscow State University. 




</doc>
<doc id="21408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21408" title="Jan Mayen">
Jan Mayen

Jan Mayen is an island in the Arctic Ocean. It is part of Norway. The island's area is 373 km². A large part of the island is an active volcano, the Beerenberg, which is 2,277m high. Jan Mayen is 600km north of Iceland, 500km east of Greenland and 1000km west of the Norwegian mainland.

There is a radio station and a meteorological station on the island. The staff at these stations are the only people living on the island.

There are many claims and stories about discovery of the island. Some claims and possible discoveries are as early as the beginning of the 6th century. However, the first discovery that is certain was in 1614. The Dutchman Jan Jacobs May van Schellinkhout visited the island then and it is named for him. His first mate made maps of some of the coast.

It is incorrectly assumed that Henry Hudson discovered the island in 1607 and called it "Hudson's Tutches" or "Touches", but there is no evidence for this. Thereafter it was allegedly seen several times by navigators who claimed its discovery and renamed it. Thus, in 1611 or the following year whalers from Hull named it "Trinity Island"; in 1612 Jean Vrolicq, a French whaler, claimed in 1629 that he had discovered the island and called it "Île de Richelieu;" and in 1614 English captain John Clarke named it Isabella. 

The island has very few residents. The Long Range Navigation (Loran-C) base has a staff of 14 and a weather services station has a staff of four. The staff members of both stations live in Olonkinbyen. The island has no native people living on it, but is given the ISO 3166-1 country code SJ, the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) .no (.sj is allocated but not used) and data code JN. Its amateur radio call sign prefix is JX.

Svalbard



</doc>
<doc id="21409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21409" title="Uninhabited">
Uninhabited

Uninhabited is a word that usually describes places. The word means that no people live in the place.

It is often used to describe islands. For example, the island of Jan Mayen is uninhabited, except for the 20 people needed to operate the radio and weather stations there.


</doc>
<doc id="21411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21411" title="Template:U.S. broadcast television">
Template:U.S. broadcast television


</doc>
<doc id="21415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21415" title="Gate">
Gate

In the beginning, a gate was a place between two parts of a wall, or a fence which could be opened and closed to let people go through it.

In the Middle Ages, a city gate also allowed people to go into a (walled) city.

Nowadays, people also talk about "gates" at airports. When going on an aircraft, people need to get together in a certain area of the airport first. They then pass through some kind of doorway to get onto the plane. That is what is called "gate".


</doc>
<doc id="21416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21416" title="City gate">
City gate

A city gate is a gate that is found in many medieval cities. It was the place where people could enter or leave the city. Very often, city gates were closed during the night.


</doc>
<doc id="21418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21418" title="Bern (city)">
Bern (city)

Bern is the capital city of Switzerland. It is also the capital of the canton of Bern.

As of early 2006, 127.000 people live in the city.

Bern was started in 1191 by Berchthold V. von Zähringen. A legend says that he said he would name the city after the next animal he caught. So when he caught a bear (German: "Bär") the city was named Bern. Zähringen built the city in the half-circle the river Aare makes.

Public streetcars and buses are run by an organization called BernMobil. There are 3 streetcar lines and about 15 bus lines. Most of the lines are in the city but some travel away from the city. There is also the Marzilibahn, a funicular (inclined- or cliff-railway) which goes from the banks of the Aare up to the Federal Building (German: "Bundeshaus"). The Marzilibahn is 105 meters long. It is the shortest funicular in Europe. Another funicular, called the Gurtenbahn, goes from the section of Bern called Wabern, which is on the river Aare, up to the top of Gurten, a large hill 585 meters high that is just south of Bern. A small airport, Belpmoos, is located a short distance south of Bern in Belp.

Each year, on the 4th Monday in November, there is the Onion Market in Bern, where onions are sold. Many people visit the market in the early morning and throw confetti. They also hit other people with hammers made out of plastic

Since 1996, every August 1 (a national holiday in Switzerland) they hold the Aareleuchten. The Aareleuchten is paid for by SwissAid. During the festival, people put small ships with a light in them into the river Aare. All of these small lights make the Aare "glow."


</doc>
<doc id="21422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21422" title="Demo (software)">
Demo (software)

A demo is a small portion or sample of a product. Usually the product is music, video game, or computer program. Demos are usually given to people who might be interested the product to try it before buying and advertise the product.


</doc>
<doc id="21423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21423" title="Preview">
Preview

A preview is a small piece of something used to show what the whole is like before it is generally available. Typically, previews exist for movies and possibly video games. They usually are a small portion of video showing what the game or movie is like to advertise it.

In software, a preview can be a feature that allows a user to see what a document looks like before the user prints it out, or posts it on a website.


</doc>
<doc id="21424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21424" title="Atomic mass">
Atomic mass

Atomic mass (not to be confused with atomic weight) is a term for the mass of a single atom of a chemical element. It includes the weights of the 3 subatomic particles that make up an atom: protons, electrons, and neutrons.

Because the electron is so light, the atomic mass is frequently expressed as the total number of protons and neutrons in an atom. So for example Carbon-14 has 14 particles that are either protons or neutrons and the mass can be worked out from their charge


</doc>
<doc id="21425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21425" title="Price">
Price

There are different definitions of price. Perhaps the simplest definition is to say that the price is the value, of a good or service, expressed in another good or service.

Let's say Peter raises sheep. Sally raises ducks. Winter is coming, so Sally wants some sheepskin coat to make her feel warm.
She could now first calculate how much sheepskin she would need for a coat. Let's say she needs 2 sheep skins for that coat. She would then go to Peter and ask him how much he wants for the two sheep skins she needs. Peter would then likely tell a price. Alternatively Sally could trade some of her ducks for the sheepskins.

Since trading ducks for sheep is rather complicated, people introduced something they called "money". This is simply used for trading. So Sally would trade some of her ducks for money. Some of this money she could then give to Peter to get the sheepskin. 


</doc>
<doc id="21428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21428" title="Doping">
Doping

Doping is either a term to describe drug use (usually illegal), or the process of putting certain types of chemical elements in a semiconductor in order to make their characteristics different.

In the field of electronics, doping is when an impurity is added to a semiconductor. This is done to create things that make electricity go in one direction or to make semiconductor switches. This allows for computers to exist. 

When a element called Boron is added to silicon, the Boron "dopant" is called an "acceptor" because it likes accepting electrons.

When a chemical called Phosphorous is added to silicon, the Phosphorous is called a "donor" because it does not like electrons.

When referring to everyday drug use, doping can be considered an old term and is not found in common usage. Some would say it is a "50's" term, much like "going steady". But the use of illegal drugs to help a sportsperson do better is still called "doping", it is not an old fashioned term in sports.

Doping often refers to Marijuana usage, as a common alternate name for Marijuana is dope. The word referring to drug use was probably derived from dope, which means someone who is stupid.


</doc>
<doc id="21431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21431" title="Category:VOA Special English words">
Category:VOA Special English words

VOA stands for Voice of America, a radio program sponsored by the U.S. government.

This category includes words that are part of the VOA Special English word list.

See also 


</doc>
<doc id="21433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21433" title="1640s">
1640s






</doc>
<doc id="21434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21434" title="1660s">
1660s





</doc>
<doc id="21437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21437" title="Gaza Strip">
Gaza Strip

The Gaza Strip is a stretch of land along the Mediterranean. The main city in the Gaza Strip is called Gaza. At the beginning of 2006, the strip is not part of any recognized country. It is currently ruled by Hamas.

It is one of the most densely populated areas on Earth. About 1.5 million people live on a surface of roughly 493 km².

Israel withdrew from Gaza in 2005, and gave over the territory to Palestinian administration. Meanwhile, Hamas, the Palestinian group which controls the territory, has launched rockets at Israel. Israel has fought back and bombed Gaza, most recently during December of 2008.

Most inhabitants are related to the Arabs displaced from their homes during the Israel War of Independence in 1948. They live in cities which they call refugee camps. The main problems facing the area are war, unemployment, poverty and malnutrition. In 2010 a large shopping mall opened in Gaza.


</doc>
<doc id="21439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21439" title="Unemployment">
Unemployment

Unemployment is when a person who is of normal working age (usually about 15-18 to about 60-65) does not have a paid job. They therefore do not get paid a salary. In some parts of the world, there are social networks to care for the unemployed.

The unemployment rate is the number of unemployed people divided by the total population of that age group of a country. The unemployment rate is influenced by many things, including the government of a country to the average age of a country's population.

A certain amount of unemployment is natural. 'Full employment' does not mean no-one is out of work. Governments now aim to increase the number of jobs (which can be done) rather than cut out all unemployment (which cannot be done).


</doc>
<doc id="21442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21442" title="Salary">
Salary

A salary is a type of payment a person gets for work done for a job. A "salary" is usually paid for a fixed period of time, like a month or a week. The other, possibly one-time payment for work done is called wage or fee.


</doc>
<doc id="21444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21444" title="Instant noodles">
Instant noodles

Instant noodles is a dish used in cooking. These noodles were cooked at the factory and packaged as dried noodles, often with a special powder that adds flavor to the noodles. The dish is prepared very quickly (usually 5 minutes or less), simply by putting the noodles together in hot water and then adding the powder. A kind of noodle soup is then ready to eat.

"Instant noodles" are very popular in Asia, and among many students and poorer people, because they are very cheap to produce and to buy. In the United States, a package of instant noodles sometimes costs only ten cents.

There are many companies who manufacture Instant Noodles, some of them being:



</doc>
<doc id="21446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21446" title="Category:Cities in Switzerland">
Category:Cities in Switzerland


</doc>
<doc id="21447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21447" title="Category:Norway">
Category:Norway

Norway


</doc>
<doc id="21448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21448" title="Louis Armstrong">
Louis Armstrong

Louis Daniel Armstrong (usually pronounced "Louee") (August 4, 1901 – July 6, 1971) (also known by the nicknames Satchmo and Pops) was an American jazz musician. He sang the blues and played the trumpet and the cornet and was famous in many countries for it. He was also known for his good singing voice. Armstrong won many awards during his career.



</doc>
<doc id="21449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21449" title="Category:Wikipedia Schools">
Category:Wikipedia Schools

Articles in this category are for schools that are using Wikipedia.

Ethically you must write authentic information. So that it can be useful for the international community at large in long run. Some day information provided by you may become part of history. So Please take care while writing articles for wikipedia. We must keep wiki spirit up.


</doc>
<doc id="21450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21450" title="Wikipedia:Schools">
Wikipedia:Schools


</doc>
<doc id="21459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21459" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial


</doc>
<doc id="21461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21461" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page2">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page2

The most commonly used wiki tags are bold and "italics". Bolding and "italicizing" are done by surrounding a word or phrase with multiple apostrophes ('):

<nowiki>"italics"</nowiki> appears as "italics". (2 apostrophes on both sides)

<nowiki>bold</nowiki> appears as bold. (3 apostrophes on both sides)

<nowiki>bolded italics</nowiki> appears as bolded italics. (5 apostrophes on both sides)

Note: You can type multiple quote characters by surrounding them in <pre> or <nowiki> tags.

On Wikipedia we bold the subject of an article when it is first mentioned in the article. We also "italicize" book, movie and computer/video game titles. If the first mention of the subject of an article is also a book or movie title then bold italics is used.

Headings and subheadings are an easy way to improve the organization of an article. You can break up the article by inserting a heading for each section.

Headings can be created like this:

If an article has at least four headings, a table of contents will automatically be generated. Headings will be added automatically to the table of contents for the page, so long as three others already exist. If you don't want a table of contents for the page, then add <nowiki></nowiki> to the top of your page.

<div style="clear:left;">


</doc>
<doc id="21464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21464" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page3">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page3

Linking

You can easily make links to other articles in Wikipedia. If you want to link the word "aardvark" to the article on aardvarks, you would simply add two sets of square brackets around the word like this: <nowiki>aardvark</nowiki>. The link would look like this: aardvark.

You can also change what text appears in the link. To do this, add a pipe symbol ( | ) after the page you want to link to. Then add what you want to appear.

So typing <nowiki>article on aardvarks</nowiki> would look like this: article on aardvarks.

You can link to other websites as well as Wikipedia too. <nowiki>Google</nowiki> would look like this: Google
<div style="clear:left;">


</doc>
<doc id="21465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21465" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page4">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page4

Talk pages

If you want to make a comment about an article, just click the 'talk' link at the top of the page and leave a message. Always end your messages with <nowiki>~~~~</nowiki> to automatically sign your name.

If you are answering someone else's message, indent your post with a colon (<nowiki>:</nowiki>) at the beginning. You can indent it further using more than one colon.

Everyone on Wikipedia also has a talk page, including you. This is how people talk to each other on Wikipedia. If you want to ask another user a question, just leave a message on their talk page. They will then leave a reply on your talk page.

When someone changes your talk page, a box will appear next time you load a page telling you that you have new messages.
<div style="clear:left;">


</doc>
<doc id="21466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21466" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page5">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page5

Important things to remember




<div style="clear:left;">


</doc>
<doc id="21467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21467" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page6">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page6

There are lots of things to remember when making changes to Wikipedia. The most important thing is to not be scared of making these changes. Don't worry about making mistakes, we can easily fix them.

If you need help when making changes, first visit the . If you are still stuck, ask your teacher, or another member on their talk page. You can also ask an . Remember that not everyone will be online, so don't expect an instant reply!
<div style="clear:left;">


</doc>
<doc id="21468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21468" title="1430s">
1430s



</doc>
<doc id="21469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21469" title="Element">
Element

A chemical element is a pure chemical substance consisting of one type of atom distinguished by its atomic number, which is the number of protons contain within its nucleus, and is unable to be reduced any further without a nuclear reaction taking place, though these processes typically emit enormous amounts of radiation that can result in anything from mild irritations to death. The term is also used by scientists and scholars to refer to a pure chemical substance composed of atoms with the same number of protons.
Element can also mean:


</doc>
<doc id="21471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21471" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page7">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page7

Congratulations, you can now start making changes to Wikipedia! Come back and feel free to look at this tutorial any time if you feel unsure on anything.

If you'd like to start looking for articles on any subject right now, a great place to start is our . Or you could simply look around in order to improve any articles lying around, like !
<div style="clear:left;">


</doc>
<doc id="21472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21472" title="CBS">
CBS

CBS Broadcasting Inc. (CBS) (full name: Columbia Broadcasting System) is an United States television network. Along with ABC, NBC and FOX, it is one of the country's four major television networks.




</doc>
<doc id="21483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21483" title="Prime Minister of Canada">
Prime Minister of Canada

The Prime Minister of Canada is the person who normally exercises most political power in Canada. He or she is appointed by the Governor General, and is normally the leader of the biggest political party in the House of Commons (the lower and elected house of the Canadian Parliament). In 2006, Stephen Harper became the 22nd Prime Minister of Canada.



</doc>
<doc id="21487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21487" title="Category:Series of books">
Category:Series of books


</doc>
<doc id="21488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21488" title="Magnetism">
Magnetism

In physics, magnetism is a force that can attract (bring closer) or repel (push away) things ("objects") that have a magnetic material like iron inside them ("magnetic objects").

Magnetism can be made by things we call "magnets", or can also be made by electricity in a wire (called an "electromagnet"). Magnetic attraction is when magnets are put near to magnetic objects, the magnet will attract the magnetic object and pull it towards the magnet until it is as near as it can get or touching it. Magnets can also repel other magnets. Most objects that are attracted to magnets have iron in them. Most other metals, such as aluminium, are not attracted to magnets. 

Magnets have an unseen area around them called a "magnetic field." Magnetic objects inside this unseen field are attracted to the magnet. Magnetic things outside the magnetic field are not attracted to the magnet. This is why a magnet must be close to an object to attract it.

The ends of a magnet are called magnetic poles. This is the part of magnets that attract magnetic things the most. All magnets have what is called a magnetic north pole and what is called a magnetic south pole. If a piece of string is tied to the middle of the magnet and the string is held so that the magnet is allowed to hang down on its own, then the north pole of the magnet will turn and point to the Earth's magnetic north pole. This can be tested by tying a string to a magnet shaped like a straight stick, and then holding the string so that the magnet can turn. 

The poles of two magnets will repel or attract each other. Different poles attract each other. For example, if the south pole of one magnet is put near the south pole of another magnet, the magnets will repel each other. This will also happen with two north poles that are put near each other. If a north pole is put near a south pole, the magnets will attract each other until they stick to each other and can be hard to pull apart.

Magnets have many uses. One use was found long ago when explorers found that a magnet could be used as a compass to show the direction of north & south.

Electromagnets are another kind of magnet. They only work when electricity is running through them. Often, these magnets work by using a coil of wire that makes a magnetic field when there is a current in it. In addition to this coil of wire, a large piece of metal, usually iron, is placed inside the coil to increase the magnetic field made. Though most large electromagnets employ many solenoids to lift heavy objects, smaller solenoids are used in everyday electronics. For example, they are used to change voltage in a transformer. Electromagnets can also be used to make electricity. Movement of a magnet back and forth in front of the electromagnet will make an electric current.

Electromagnets are used to make many things work, like computers, televisions and radios.

The effect of magnetism on global warming has not yet been researched. It is believed that severe climate change can also change the Earth's magnetism. This it has not been found to be true yet. Earth does change its magnetic poles every million years (plus or minus 200,000 years). Before a change of magnetic field, the Earth's magnetic field becomes weaker and moves around, like a top would before it falls. The earth has already had hundreds of changes ("flip flops"). Scientists (people who study science) know this as a result of studies of the sea floor, near the mid-Atlantic ridge. The lava slowly moves out of this crevasse (gap in the sea floor) and then it cools with its iron molecules all pointing in the new direction of the Earth's magnetic field. We can look at the history of this magnetic field today to look back at the many flips in the past.

Electromagnetic waves are used in radio for sending signals from the radio station to the radio.



</doc>
<doc id="21490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490" title="Althing">
Althing

The Althing (Icelandic "Alþingi"; Old Norse "Alþing") is the national legislature of Iceland. It was founded in 930 at Þingvellir, (the "assembly fields"), which is almost 45 kilometers east of Iceland's capital, Reykjavík. When the Althing was formed, that was the beginning of Iceland as a country. Even after Iceland's union with Norway, the Althing still held its meetings at Þingvellir until 1799, when it was stopped for several years. It started meeting again in 1844 and moved to Reykjavík, where it has been ever since. The parliament building where the Althing meets now is called the Alþingishús. It was built with Icelandic stone in 1881.

Because the Althing was founded more than one thousand years ago, Iceland is one of the world's oldest democratic countries.


</doc>
<doc id="21491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21491" title="Blues (disambiguation)">
Blues (disambiguation)

Blues can mean more than one thing:




</doc>
<doc id="21492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21492" title="Amapá">
Amapá

Amapá is one of the states of Brazil. It is in the far north, bordering French Guiana in the north. To the east is the Atlantic Ocean, and to the south and west is the Brazilian state Pará.

The state is mostly covered by rainforest. The state is known for producing iron and other metals.

Amapá has only been a Brazilian state since 1988.


</doc>
<doc id="21500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21500" title="Fictional character">
Fictional character

A fictional character is a person in a work of art such as a novel, play, opera or movie. If it is a made-up person or imaginary person (not someone who really or actually lived) it is a "fictional character". Some examples are Kermit the Frog, Yoda, SpongeBob SquarePants, Bambi, Tod and Copper, and Bart Simpson of "The Simpsons.

The word character can also mean "personality". We can say that someone has a "strong character" meaning a strong, confident personality. It is sometimes used as a noun in this sense: "He is a real character" (meaning someone you cannot easily forget).

A character role in a play means one of the people in the play who have a particular character (personality). They contrast with the main characters of the play. For example, there may be two lovers who are the main characters of the story. The character roles might be: a wicked step-mother, a kind nurse, an old wise man, a stupid fool, a servant who is very old etc.


</doc>
<doc id="21505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21505" title="Blues">
Blues

The blues is a form of music that started in the United States during the start of the 20th century. It was started by former African slaves from spirituals, praise songs, and chants. The first blues songs were called Delta blues. These songs came from the area near the mouth of the Mississippi River. Many afro-Americans migrated to the north esp. in the northwest of the United States, to find work. They took the blues with them and developed it into new styles. The most important is the Chicago Blues, which is played with electric amplified instruments. But also in other cities and states a own form of Blues developed from the Delta Blues (f. e. Texas Blues, West Coast Blues and others).

Blues is based around a very simple pattern.and so is twi "“Blues is easy to play, but hard to feel”"-Jimi Hendrix. A common form for the blues is a repeating 12 bar form (each bar has 4 beats). This is put together as 3 phrases or sections, each being 4 bars long. The basic blues only needs 3 chords, one based on the first note of the scale - the tonic chord, one based on the fourth note of the scale - the subdominant chord, and one based on the fifth note of the scale - the dominant chord. The first section or phrase of 4 bars only uses the tonic chord. A common variation is to use the subdominant chord in the second bar. The second phrase has 2 bars (8 beats) of subdominant chord then 2 bars of tonic chord. The third phrase has 1 bar (4 beats) of dominant chord, 1 bar of subdominant chord and finishes with 2 bars of tonic chord.

In a scale based on the note C (C is the 1st or tonic, F is the 4th or subdominant, and G is the 5th or dominant), the chord pattern of a 12 bar blues would be like this:

C C C C |C C C C or F F F F |C C C C |C C C C |
F F F F |F F F F |C C C C |C C C C |
G G G G |F F F F |C C C C |C C C C |

The melody of the simplest blues scales are based on the scale for example C Eflat G A Bflat C, with extra notes (called "blue notes") added like this C Eflat Gflat G A Bflat C. Blue notes do not normally fit a scale, but they give the music a special feeling.

The lyrics (words)are usually about life, the bad things in life. They are to simple blues songs are also based around the form of 3 phrases. The first phrase is set over the first 4 bars of music. The second phrase words are a repetition of the first phrase, this always happens and emphasises the message. The third phrase completes the "story" and rhymes (ends with the same sound) as the first line. This verse from Robert Johnson's ""Crossroad Blues"" shows how these phrases work in a song:

""I went to the crossroads, fell down on my knees"
"I went to the crossroads, fell down on my knees"
"Asked the Lord above, have mercy now, save poor Bob if you please""



</doc>
<doc id="21506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21506" title="Category:Blues music">
Category:Blues music

Blues


</doc>
<doc id="21510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21510" title="Macroeconomics">
Macroeconomics

Macroeconomics studies the economic decisions of a large group of people; for example, a whole country's economy. Many governments use macroeconomics to decide how much tax to collect, and what interest rates should be.
Macroeconomics also looks at exchange rates. For example, if a country has a high exchange rate, not many people will want to buy its expensive products. So the demand will be lower, and so will the prices.



</doc>
<doc id="21513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21513" title="Game theory">
Game theory

Game theory uses math to study strategy. Game theory studies more than just board games, sports, and games of luck. It also studies things like business and military decisions. In game theory, people call all of these situations "games." In other words, you can use game theory to study any situation where more than one person makes choices. 

The players in a game are not even always people. Players can be people, companies, armies, or other things. Each player wants something: maybe a company wants to make as much money as it can, or a country wants to win a war. Sometimes the players work together, but often they are competing against each other.

Game theory is part of economics.

One important game is the prisoner's dilemma. It's an imaginary situation that shows why sometimes people do not cooperate (help each other).

Imagine this situation: the police catch two criminals after they committed a crime. The police do not know which person committed the crime and which person just helped. They question the two in separate cells. Each prisoner can either stay silent or betray (hurt) the other by blaming the crime on them. If both stay silent, they only go to jail for 6 months. If one betrays and the other stays silent, the one that stays silent goes to jail for 10 years and the other one does not go to jail at all. If they both betray each other, they each go to jail for 2 years. No matter what happens, the prisoners will never see each other again.

If you are a prisoner in this situation and you only care about yourself, the way to get the smallest sentence is to betray the other prisoner. No matter what, you get a shorter sentence when you betray than when you do not. If the other prisoner stays silent and does not betray, then betraying means you do not go to jail at all instead of going to jail for 6 months. If the other prisoner betrays, then betraying lets you go to jail for 2 years instead of 10 years. In other words, it's always best for you to betray, even though the two of you would be better off if you both stayed silent. It is said that betraying the other prisoner is your "dominant strategy" because it is always the best thing for you to do, no matter what the other prisoner does.

The prisoner's dilemma is like a lot of other situations in the real world. For example, if two countries are trying to decide whether to make new weapons, they are both better off if neither country does. But sometimes the countries are in the same situation as the prisoners: each country only cares about itself, and it's better off if it "betrays" the other country by making weapons.

The prisoner's dilemma does not have same result if some of the details are different. If the prisoners (or countries) can talk with each other and plan for the future, they might both decide to cooperate (not betray) because they hope that will make the other country help them in the future. In game theory, this is called a "repeated game." If the players are altruistic (if they care about each other), they might be OK with going to jail so they can help the other person.


</doc>
<doc id="21515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21515" title="Taj Mahal">
Taj Mahal

The Taj Mahal is a tomb built in the 17th century by Mughal ruler Shah Jahan in memory of his wife, Mumtaz Mahal. 

It is in the city of Agra, Uttar Pradesh, Republic of India. Widely thought of as one of the most beautiful buildings in the world, it is one of India's biggest tourist attractions. 

It was chosen as one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in 2007. It is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, together with the Agra Fort, 2.5 kilometers away. 

The Taj Mahal is an example of Mughal architecture – a mixture of building design ideas from Islamic Indian, Persian (old Iran), and Muslim arts. 

Shah Jahan was going to build an identical black tomb for himself, but he died before he even began to build, and was entombed in the Taj Mahal with his wife.

The Taj Mahal was constructed using materials from all over the world, and over 10,000 people were used to move building materials. It is generally thought that Uhmad Ahmad Lahauri was in charge of the construction. The construction was finished in 1653.

Many people think it is one of the most beautiful buildings ever built. However, it is slowly being damaged by acid rain. A nearby oil refinery has been blamed for some of the damage. In 1996, the Indian Supreme Court said that local industry was harming the Taj Mahal. The court set up an area of 10,400 square kilometers around the Taj Mahal called the Taj Trapezium Zone. Industries within this zone must use natural gas instead of coal.

There have also been concerns about the effect of visitors on the site. Rajan Kishore, a conservationist from Agra, has said that visitors walking through are putting too much pressure on the Taj Mahal, and suggested that the number of people allowed in be limited.



</doc>
<doc id="21521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21521" title="Aryan">
Aryan

Aryan is the name that an ancient people of Europe, Iran (Greater Iran) and India called themselves. Descendants of the Aryans include speakers of Sanskrit and Avestan which are related to the Indo-European languages. About three thousand and five hundred years ago, both Iranians and Indians used the name "Aryan" to mean their shared ancestors, as well as "nobles." 

The Avestan name "Airiianəm vaēǰō" "Aryan expanse", is a reference in the Zoroastrian Avesta (Vendidad, Fargard 1) to the Aryans’ mother country and one of Ahura Mazda's "sixteen perfect lands". Other Avestan names are "airyō.šayana", the “Aryan people”, and "airyā daiŋˊhāvā" “the Aryan lands”. These names were known to old Greek writers as "Ariana". Also the Sanskrit name "Āryāvarta" "abode of the Aryans", was a region in north of today's India. The Middle Persian name of the Sassanian Empire, an empire that ruled Persia from the 3rd century to the 7th century, was "Eran-shar" meaning the "Aryan Empire". Today, the name "Iran" is simply the Persian word for "Aryan".

In the late 18th century, Europeans began using the term "Aryan" to refer to the original prehistoric Proto-Indo-Europeans and their descendents up to the present day (i.e., the Indo-European peoples--those Caucasians who are speakers of the Indo-European languages). This was the most common definition of "Aryan" in the 19th century and early 20th century. This was the definition used by H.G. Wells in his best-selling 1920 book "The Outline of History". Many young people consider this definition obsolete and politically incorrect but it is still used by some older people, such as in a 1989 article in Scientific American by Colin Renfrew advocating the Anatolian hypothesis in which he uses the word 'Aryan' in its traditional meaning as a synonym for 'Indo-European'. 

In the late 19th century, some Europeans began to use the name "Aryan" for only the Nordic peoples of Europe (one branch of the Indo-European peoples), as a "pure," "noble" and "superior" race they claimed were descended from the original Aryans.

The theory that the Aryans first came from Europe became especially accepted in Germany. It was widely believed that the "Vedic Aryans" were the same people as the Goths, Vandals and other ancient Germanic peoples who brought the Western Roman Empire to an end. This idea was often mixed with anti-Semitic ideas. The Master Race theory became a main idea for Nazis. After the Nazis took power in Germany in 1933, these ideas led to horrible persecutions of the Jews which culminated in the Holocaust.

The idea of racism that the Nazi theory means has been totally put aside by modern scientists, some of whom also disagree with the idea that the original Aryans ever lived in Europe. Most other scientists do maintain that the original Proto-Indo-Europeans did live about 5,000 years ago in the area in Europe east of Ukraine and north of the Caucasus Mountains and that the original Aryans (the "Indo-Iranians" or eastern branch of the Indo-European peoples) did migrate east to Iran and India from there, and the original ancestors of the modern "European peoples" (the western or "European" branch of the Indo-European peoples) did migrate west from there. This is called the Kurgan hypothesis.




</doc>
<doc id="21531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21531" title="Gypsy">
Gypsy

A Gypsy may be:

In music:

In fiction:

Other meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="21532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21532" title="Uzbekistan">
Uzbekistan

Uzbekistan is a country in Central Asia. Its capital and largest city is Tashkent.

There are about 26,593,000 people living in Uzbekistan. The neighboring countries are Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. It is a doubly landlocked country, of which there are only two in the world.

Most people in Uzbekistan speak a language called Uzbek, a Turkic language similar to Uyghur and Turkish. In the Uzbek language, Uzbekistan is called "O‘zbekiston" and it means "the land of the true nobles".

Uzbekistan has a long history. Humans first lived in Uzbekistan from before the 2nd millenium BC.

The president today is Islam Karimov.


</doc>
<doc id="21533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21533" title="1200s">
1200s



</doc>
<doc id="21534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21534" title="United Arab Emirates">
United Arab Emirates

The United Arab Emirates or the UAE is a country in the Middle East. Its capital is Abu Dhabi and largest city is Dubai. It is made up of seven emirates which used to have a special peace treaty (or "truce") with the United Kingdom. This is why their old name was the Trucial States.

The country's official language is Arabic. 
The country has some traditions and one of them is eating dates. That is why date palms are often grown in the UAE.

Flag of the United Arab Emirates


</doc>
<doc id="21538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538" title="Can">
Can

A Can can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="21539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21539" title="Wok">
Wok

A wok is a Chinese pan used for cooking . It has a round bottom. The most common use for the wok is stir frying, though it can also be used for deep frying, smoking, braising, roasting, grilling, and steaming.

In Indonesia, the wok is known as a "wadjang", "kuali" in Malaysia, and "kawali" (small wok) and "kawa" (big wok) in the Philippines.


</doc>
<doc id="21540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21540" title="United States Navy">
United States Navy

The United States Navy is part of the United States Armed Forces (the military of the USA).

The navy mainly deals with ocean-based military actions.
The navy was called the Continental Navy from 1775 until Congress established the Department of the Navy on April 30, 1798. A person (or member) in the navy is called a sailor.




</doc>
<doc id="21542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21542" title="Pro bono">
Pro bono

Pro bono is a Latin phrase meaning "for [the] good", that is used to mean that a legal professional (lawyer) who would otherwise be paid money for his work,
works without being paid, for the benefit of society,
typically on behalf of a person or organization who cannot pay for some reason, such as poverty.


</doc>
<doc id="21543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21543" title="Ziggy">
Ziggy

Ziggy could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="21547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21547" title="Template:Disputedpolicy">
Template:Disputedpolicy

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="21550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21550" title="Molecular formula">
Molecular formula

A molecular formula (or chemical formula) is a notation used by chemists to describe a molecule. The formula tells what types of atoms and how many of each type are in the molecule. Sometimes the formula shows how the atoms are linked. The letter says the type of atom and the subscript tells the number each type of atom. For example, hydrogen peroxide has the formula is HO. (Each hydrogen peroxide molecule contains two hydrogen (H) atoms and two oxygen (O) atoms.) Methane, a small molecule with one carbon (C) atom and four hydrogen atoms, has the chemical formula CH. The sugar molecule glucose has six carbon atoms, twelve hydrogen atoms and six oxygen atoms, so its chemical formula is CHO.

Chemical formulas are used in chemical equations to describe chemical reactions.
The 19th-century Swedish chemist Jöns Jacob Berzelius worked out this system for writing chemical formulas.


</doc>
<doc id="21551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21551" title="Harvard University">
Harvard University

Harvard University is a private university in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA and a member of the Ivy League. Harvard was started on September 8, 1636. It is considered by many to be one of the best universities in the world and allows only 7% of the people who apply to go to school there.

Seven Presidents of the United States have graduated from Harvard schools and colleges.

Harvard is located on the Charles River. Some students go to the Charles River for rowing. On the other side of the Charles River is the city of Boston. Boston's subway system has a stop at Harvard. Some of Harvard's graduate schools are in Boston, but most of Harvard's schools are in Cambridge. Together, these schools are Harvard University.

The school color is crimson, which is a dark red color. 

Harvard has over $30 billion and derivatives that gave it exposure to $7.2 billion in commodities and foreign stocks. 

Harvard has many libraries like Widener Library. There are other facilities like skating rinks and the Malkin Athletic Center where students can swim and exercise.

Another famous school close to Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts is the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).

Harvard's president is Drew Gilpin Faust, Harvard's first woman president. The president before her, Lawrence Summers, was a controversial president because of things he said about women and the way he ran things. In 2006, Mr. Summers told Harvard's students and professors that he would resign in the summer and no longer serve Harvard as president. Mr. Summers is an economist and now works as the Director of the White House's National Economic Council for President Barack Obama.


</doc>
<doc id="21553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21553" title="Tamil language">
Tamil language

Tamil is a language. It is spoken in the Tamil Nadu state of India, and in Sri Lanka, Singapore and Malaysia. It belongs to the Dravidian language family. It is a classical language, and one of world's oldest literary languages. The oldest text found in Tamil is Tolkāppiyam. Tamil is the one of the oldest living language in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="21555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21555" title="Kerala">
Kerala

Kerala is a state in the Republic of India. It is surrounded by the Arabian Sea in the west, and the states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka in the east. The capital city of the state is Thiruvananthapuram. The land area of Kerala is 15,005 mi (38,863 km), which is bigger than Bhutan but smaller than Switzerland.

Most of the people in Kerala speak Malayalam.

Kerala is known for traditional arts and people enjoy traditional, percussion-filled music. They also enjoy tribal ceremonies, martial arts, and even sports activities such as soccer, cricket, and badminton. Most of the people have access to the internet, TVs, newspapers, and books. The average amount of reading per week is about seven hours. The literacy rate is approximately 96.9%.

Kerala is known for its beautiful beaches and extensive backwaters, and is one of the biggest tourist attractions in India, both for Indians as well as foreigners. Kerala is known as "God's own country".



</doc>
<doc id="21557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21557" title="Malayalam">
Malayalam

Malayalam is a language. Most people that speak Malayalam live in Kerala, in India. A speaker of Malayalam is called a "Malayali". 

Malayalam (/malayALam/) is the principal language of the South Indian state of Kerala and also of the Lakshadweep Islands (Laccadives) of the west coast of India. 

Malayalis (speakers of Malayalam), who - males and females alike - are almost totally literate, constitute 4 percent of the population of India and 96 percent of the population of Kerala (29.01 million in 1991). 

In terms of the number of speakers, Malayalam ranks eighth among the 18 major languages of India. 

Malyalam language has 52 phonemes. A few of the phonemes are unique for Malayalam.

The word /malayALam/ originally meant mountainous country (/mala/- mountain + /aLam/-place). Tamil Nadu is its neighbour on the south and east and Karnataka on the north and east.

Malayalam is the only Indian Language which is a palindrome.


</doc>
<doc id="21558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21558" title="Coimbatore">
Coimbatore

Coimbatore (Tamil: கோயம்புத்தூர்), also known as Kovai (Tamil: கோவை), is the Second largest city in the Tamil Nadu, next to Chennai. It is the administrative headquarters of the Coimbatore District and a major textile and engineering hub of South India. It forms a part of the ancient Kongu Nadu region of South India, where its people were the first to establish territorial state. Coimbatore city including its suburban areas has a population of 2.4 million people.

It is referred as Manchester of South India in business circles, and has textile mills, factories, engineering firms, automobile parts manufacturers, health care facilities, and educational institutions. The hill stations of Ooty, Coonnor and Valparai are close to the city making it a good tourist attraction throughout the year. The city is on the banks of the Noyyal River and is close to the Siruvani Waterfalls.


</doc>
<doc id="21559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21559" title="Category:Tamil Nadu">
Category:Tamil Nadu

Tamil Nadu, India


</doc>
<doc id="21560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21560" title="Madurai">
Madurai

Madurai is a city in Tamil Nadu, India. It was the capital of the earlier Pandyan Kingdom.

Meenakshi Amman Temple, Oyiram Kal Mandabam (Hall of Thousand Pillars) are some of the important tourist places in Madurai.
Madurai is a city in Tamil Nadu, India. It was the capital of the earlier Pandyan Kingdom.

Meenakshi Amman Temple, Oyiram Kal Mandabam (Hall of Thousand Pillars) are some of the important tourist places in Madurai.

Madurai always considered to be a good pilgrim center. Tourists from various part of the country and world are coming to madurai and enjoying a historical excellence.

The main attraction of the city is meenakshi amman temple. Various other tourist and pilgrimage places also there such as Alagar Koil, Thiruparangkundram, Palarmuthir solai ( means Garden with fruits), Thirumalai naicker Mahal (palace of Naickers), Teppakulam (A Square tank almost half a kilometer length as one side length), gandi museum (where we can find blood spotted final dress of Gandiji), etc.

The city is said to be as City of Festivals almost all the days in year is having at least a small festival. The city is also called as 'thoonganagaram' which means Non-sleeping city.

Road side idly shops are very famous in Madurai where all can get good foods in cheaper costs. Jigardhanda, a typical muslim cool drink is one of the famous drink from madurai. 

A Blog for Madurai - News, Updates, Views and Improvement Thoughts


</doc>
<doc id="21561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21561" title="Assam">
Assam

Assam (Bengali:আসাম, ভারত) is a state in the north eastern region of Hindustan and has an area of 30,285 mi² (78,438 km²), it is bigger than Panama but smaller than the Czech Republic. There is one major river (Brahmaputra) that flows through the length of the state. The state lies on the foothills of the Himalayas. There are two international borders touched by Assam - Bhutan and Bangladesh.


</doc>
<doc id="21562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21562" title="Arunachal Pradesh">
Arunachal Pradesh

Arunachal Pradesh is a state in the Republic of India.

1,091,117 people lived in this state as reported in census 2001. The total area is 32,333 mi² (83,743 km²), it is bigger than United Arab Emirates but smaller than Austria. 

The country that owns this region is disputed. The People's Republic of China says that they own part of the region and call it "South Tibet." The northern boundary, about 550 miles long, in dispute between India and China, is known as the McMahon Line, the other being the dispute over Aksai Chin. In 1962, the Sino-Indian War was fought here. The war was short and ended in India's defeat. However, China withdrew back to the modern borders voluntarily. They still say that they own the region, though currently Hindustan occupies it, Most of the population of Arunachal Pradesh is of Asiatic origin and shows physical affinities with the peoples of Tibet and the Myanmar hill region. 



</doc>
<doc id="21563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21563" title="Bihar">
Bihar

Bihar is a state in the Republic of India, covering an area of 38,202 mi² (99,200 km²). It is bigger than Hungary but smaller than South Korea. The capital is Patna. Bihar is bordered by the Indian states of Uttar Pradesh to the west, Jharkhand to the south, and West Bengal to the east. To the north of Bihar is the country of Nepal.


</doc>
<doc id="21564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21564" title="Chhattisgarh">
Chhattisgarh

Chhattisgarh is a state within the Republic of India, it occupies 52,199 mi² (135,194 km²), it is bigger than Greece but smaller than Tajikistan.
The capital at present is Raipur which would change to 'Naya Raipur' near Raipur. It has eighteen districts: Raigarh, Bilaspur, Bijapur, Korba, Durg, Janjgir, Raipur, Koria, Sarguja, Bastar, Dantewada, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Kanker, Mahasamund, Dhamtari, Jashpur and Kabirdham (Kawardha).
The main language spoken is Hindi and Chhattisgarhi and the main religion Hindu.


</doc>
<doc id="21565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21565" title="Gujarat">
Gujarat

Gujarat (Urdu:انڈیا گجرات)is a state within the Republic of India. Gandhinagar is the capital of Gujarat. This city is named after Mahatma Gandhi. Its area is 75,686 mi² (196,077 km²), including the Kori Creek of the Rann of Kachchh, but excluding the Kutch District: which is disputed by Pakistan, it is bigger than Syria but smaller than Senegal. Surat, Bharuch, Ahmedabad, Vapi, Badoda, Porbandar, Rajkot, Jamnagar are some important cities in Gujarat. Champaner, Gondal, Bhavnagar, Utelia, Zainabad, Bhuj, Sasangir are some tourist places. People in Gujarat are mainly engaged in Agriculture and business.


</doc>
<doc id="21566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21566" title="Haryana">
Haryana

Haryana (Doabi:ਹਰਿਆਣਾ, ਇੰਡੀਆ) is a state in the Republic of India, also the birthplace of Hinduism, the main language spoken in the area is Haryanvi. The area is 17,120 mi² (44,341 km²). It is larger than Denmark but smaller than Estonia.


</doc>
<doc id="21567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21567" title="Himachal Pradesh">
Himachal Pradesh

Himachal Pradesh (Doabi:ਹਿਮਾਚਲ ਪ੍ਰਦੇਸ਼, ਇੰਡੀਆ) was part of Indian Punjab before 1966 and is considered by some Sikh nationalists as part of the greater area of Khalistan, is now a state in the Republic of India. Shimla is the capital of Himachal Pradesh. Covers an area of 21,629 mi² (56,019 km²), although the porus border between China and the provincial region has never been officially delimited. China’s position on the western part of the border between the two countries is consistent. Not a single Chinese government recognizes the Boundary Line. For China, this Line, stands as a symbol of imperialist aggression on the country. The eastern part “Arunachal Pradesh” so-called dispute is China’s most intractable border issue. Because the gap between the positions of China and India is wide, it is difficult for both nations to reach consensus. This area itself is bigger than Bosnia and Herzegovina but smaller than Croatia. 

The Indianized state of Himachal Pradesh is divided as follows:


Each division contains several districts.



</doc>
<doc id="21568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21568" title="Jammu and Kashmir">
Jammu and Kashmir

Jammu and Kashmir or Occupied Kashmir () is the northernmost state of India. When people talk about this state, they sometimes call it "Indian-administered Kashmir". The state is covers and is mostly in the Himalayan mountains.

There is a dispute over the territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan refers to Indian-administered Kashmir as "Indian-occupied Kashmir IOK" .

Jammu and Kashmir consists of three divisions: Jammu region, the Kashmir valley and Ladakh. Srinagar is the summer capital, and Jammu its winter capital. While the Kashmir valley, often known as "paradise on Earth", is famous for its beautiful mountainous landscape, Jammu's numerous holy shrines attracts tens of thousands of Hindu and Muslim pilgrims every year. Ladakh, also known as "Little Tibet", is renowned for its remote mountain beauty and Buddhist culture.



</doc>
<doc id="21569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21569" title="Jharkhand">
Jharkhand

Jharkhand is a state within the Republic of India. About 20,000,000 people live in Jharkhand, 28,833 mi² (74,677 km²), it is bigger than Sierra Leone but smaller than Panama. It has many villages and towns. Ranchi is the capital city of Jharkhand. 


</doc>
<doc id="21570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21570" title="Madhya Pradesh">
Madhya Pradesh

Madhya Pradesh is a state within the Republic of India. The state has an area of . It is bigger than Italy but smaller than Oman.
The capital of the state is Bhopal. The largest city is Indore.
Other main cities are Jabalpur and Ujjain. Ujjain is well known for its mythological reasons. Mandav, Bhojpur and Panchmadi are the main tourist attractions.


</doc>
<doc id="21571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21571" title="Manipur">
Manipur

Manipur is a state within the Republic of India. It has area of 8,628 mi² (22,347 km²), it is bigger than the State of Israel but smaller than Belize. 


</doc>
<doc id="21572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21572" title="Meghalaya">
Meghalaya

Meghalaya (Bengali:মেঘালায়া, ভারত) is a state within the Republic of India. Occupying an area of 8,660 mi² (22,429 km²), bigger than the State of Israel but smaller than Belize. Its capital is Shillong. Meghalaya's population is 2,318,822. The population of Shillong was 314,610 in 2001.



</doc>
<doc id="21573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21573" title="Mizoram">
Mizoram

Mizoram is a state in the Republic of India, in the eastern region beyond Bangladesh. Covering an area of 8,139 mi² (21,081 km²), it is bigger than the nation of El Salvador but smaller than the State of Israel.

The word "Mizoram" means "land of the Mizo people". It is one of the Seven Sister States in North Eastern India, sharing borders with the states of Tripura, Assam, Manipur and with the neighbouring countries of Bangladesh and Myanmar. Mizoram became the 23rd state of India on 20 February 1987. The capital of Mizoram is Aizawl.


</doc>
<doc id="21574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21574" title="Nagaland">
Nagaland

Nagaland is a northeastern state in the Republic of India. It has an area of 6,401 mi² (16,579 km²). It is bigger than East Timor but smaller than Swaziland.


</doc>
<doc id="21575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21575" title="Orissa">
Orissa

Orissa is a state on the east coast of the Republic of India, an area of 60,162 mi² (155,820 km²), it is bigger than Nepal but smaller than Tunisia.


</doc>
<doc id="21576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21576" title="Punjab (India)">
Punjab (India)

State of Punjab or "(Doab India), Land of Two Rivers" (Urdu:ڈوب انڈیا) (Doabi:ਦੋਆਬ, ਇੰਡੀਆ) is a state in the northern Republic of India. About 24 million people live there. Its national capital city is Chandigarh. The city is a separate territory, because it is also used be the capital of Haryana. The state is located in the Punjab region. It covers an area of 19,445 mi² or 50,362 km². It is bigger than Slovakia but smaller than Costa Rica.

The word "Doab" is a combination of the Indo-Iranian words "Doab" ("two") and "āb" ("water"), and thus the (land of) "two rivers". The two rivers are the Beas and Sutlej. Sometimes, in English, there can be a definite article before the name i.e. "the Doaba". The name is also sometimes spelled as "Duoab" or "Douaab" or "Doaab".

The Indianized state of Punjab is divided as follows:
Each division contains several districts.


</doc>
<doc id="21577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21577" title="Rajasthan">
Rajasthan

Rajasthan (Urdu:سکستان انڈیا) is a state in northwestern India. It is the Indian state with the biggest land area; 132,150 mi² or 342,269 km² it is bigger than the Republic of the Congo but smaller than Germany. The Thar Desert covers most parts of the state.
RAJSTHAN CULUTRAL FOOD IS DAAL,BAATI AND CHUURMA.THE CAPITAL OF RAJASTHAN IS JAIPUR(ALSO KNOWN AS PINK CITY) 


</doc>
<doc id="21578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21578" title="Tripura">
Tripura

Tripura (Bengali: ত্রিপুরা) is a state in eastern India, it is a Disputed Territory claimed as "Chittagonian Plains" by Bangladesh, who say that as Tripura was an independent kingdom and never part of British India, the Republic of India had no right to annex the country after the death of its last king. It covers an area of 4,036 mi² or 10,453 km², it is bigger than Lebanon but smaller than Kosovo.


</doc>
<doc id="21579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21579" title="Uttarakhand">
Uttarakhand

Uttarakhand (2000-2006 : Uttaranchal) was historically part of Nepali heritage is now a state in northern India. The population of the state is 8,479,562 (census 2001). It covers an area of 20,682 mi² (53,566 km²), it is bigger than Bosnia and Herzegovina but smaller than Croatia.


</doc>
<doc id="21580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21580" title="Uttar Pradesh">
Uttar Pradesh

Uttar Pradesh is a state in northern India. In short, people call it UP. Lucknow is the capital city of UP. 

The population of the state is 166,052,859 (census 2001). And covers an area of 93,933 mi² (243,286 km²), it is bigger than the United Kingdom but smaller than Guinea.

Uttar Pradesh borders Nepal and the Indian states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar. There are two hypsographical regions:-


The climate of Uttar Pradesh is mostly subtropical. However weather conditions change a lot depending on where one lives and the season.

"Temperature": The average temperatures vary from 12.5–17.5°C (54.5–63.5°F) in January to 27.5–32.5°C (81.5–90.5°F) in May and June. The highest temperature recorded in the State was 49.9°C (121.8°F). It was at Gonda on May 8, 1958.

"Rainfall": Rainfall is between 1,000 and 2,000 mm (40–80 inches) in the east and between 600 and 1,000 mm (24–40 inches) in the west. Most of the rain is due to the southwest monsoon. It lasts from June to September. Consequently floods are a problem during those seasons. They badly damage crops and property.

"Droughts": They occur when the monsoo does not come in the usual season. It leads to crop failure.

"Snowfall": In the Himalayan region of the State it usually snows from 3 to 5 metres (10 to15 feet) between December and March.

Airways: The state has four important airports and 23 air strips. They are in Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow and Varanasi. Lucknow is the biggest and most important airport of the state. 

Railways: Almost all the major cities and even some smaller cities are linked. The state has the largest railway network in the country. It's total length is 8,546 km (2006). It has the sixth largest railway density.

Roadways: The state has largest road network in the country. The biggest is Maharashtra. There are 31 National Highways (NH). In total they are of 4,942 km (8.5% of total NH length in India). It has the seventh highest road density in the India (1,027 km per 1000 km in 2002). It also has the largest surfaced urban road network in the country (50,721 km, as on 2002). Cities of Kanpur, Lucknow, Bareilly, Allahabad, Varanasi, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Mathura, Agra and Ghazipur are connected to many National Highways.

Waterways: The river Ganges - from Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh) to Haldia (West Bengal) - has been declared as National Waterway (NW)-I and 600 km of the total NW-I lies in Uttar Pradesh.


</doc>
<doc id="21581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21581" title="West Bengal">
West Bengal

West Bengal (Bengali: পশ্চিমবঙ্গ) is a state in India. It is located in eastern part of the country. West Bengal is the fourth most populous state in India. It is also the seventh most populous sub-national entity in the world. West Bengal is the sixth largest contributor to India's GDP. 
West Bengal and Bangladesh are parts of historical and geographic region of Bengal. Kolkata is the capital city of West Bengal. In 2001, the population of West Bengal was 80,221,171. With an area of 34,267 mi² (88,752 km²), it is bigger than Serbia but smaller than Jordan. 
West Bengal has a tropical climate, so it is very hot and humid in summer and cool in winter. The people who live here are called Bengalis. Bengalis also live in Bangladesh. Bangladesh is a country to the east of West Bengal

All of India was once ruled by the British Empire. The Indians wanted freedom, but the Hindus and the Muslims of India always argued. So it was decided to divide the country into two parts -- one part for Muslims and one part for Hindus. In 1947 Bengal, which was a province of India, was divided into West Bengal and East Bengal (which is now called Bangladesh). West Bengal went to India, and East Bengal went to Pakistan. 

Famous people from West Bengal include:


</doc>
<doc id="21583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21583" title="Szczecin">
Szczecin

Szczecin ( German "Stettin") is a large city in the west of Poland. As of 2005, 411,119 people live there. The city is located on the river Odra ("Oder" in German), near the border to Germany. It is one of the largest sea ports on the Baltic. It is the capital of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship and the historical capital of the German province of Pomerania. Szczecin has got one of the biggest harbours on the Baltic Sea.

Szczecin borders with Police - a district town situated at the Oder River.


</doc>
<doc id="21586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21586" title="Metropolitan area">
Metropolitan area

A metropolitan area is a large area of developed land, which surrounds a city, and is often made up of many buildings. It can include smaller towns and villages which are now connected to the larger city as it has grown. The biggest such metropolitan area is that of Tokyo. 8.5 million people live in Tokyo itself, 36.5 million live in the "metropolitan area".

Looking from the air down to a populated area, there will often appear one big "blob" of buildings and lights. The entire built-up area is the metropolitan area. The city is often just the part near the center of the "blob". However, it may not be in the center. Sometimes there is even more than one city inside the "blob".

So to put it simply, looking from the air again, the "blob" is the metropolitan area. The city is a smaller section of the "blob".


</doc>
<doc id="21588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21588" title="Marathi language">
Marathi language

Marathi ("मराठी भाषा") is the language spoken in Maharashtra, India. It is also Maharashtra's official language. It is at least one thousand years old and is based on Sanskrit. The written script is Devanāgarī - the same as one used to write Hindi.




</doc>
<doc id="21589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21589" title="Gujarati language">
Gujarati language

Gujarati is a language. It is spoken in Gujarat, India and also in neighbouring Pakistan. It was the "Mother Tongue" of Gandhi and Muhammad Ali Jinnah. There are millions of Gujaratis who speak it as their first language. Gujarati is the 20th most common language in the United States of America. Mahatma Gandhi, India's leader, once said about the Gujarati language, "Bad handwriting is a sign of an uncomplete education.


</doc>
<doc id="21590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21590" title="Punjabi language">
Punjabi language

Punjabi is a language. It is mainly spoken in the state of Punjab, both the Republic of India and Pakistan. Punjabi is also spoken in the neighbouring states of Haryana, Himachal Pardesh and New Delhi in Hindustan is actually called Doabi, a person coming from there are called Doabis. Punjabi developed from the ancient language of Sanskrit just like many other modern northern Indian Languages like Hindi. Punjabi is spoken by as many as 100 million people, meaning that it is one of the top ten languages in the world by number of speakers.

Punjabi is written in two different scripts, called Gurmukhi and Shahmukhi. They are both very different from the English words you are reading. The word Punjabi looks like ਪੰਜਾਬੀ in Gurmukhi and پنجابی in Shahmukhi.

Here are a few simple Punjabi words:


</doc>
<doc id="21592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21592" title="Sikhism">
Sikhism

Sikhism is a monotheistic religion, or a religion that believes in one god. The followers are called "Sikhs", and their holy book is the Guru Granth Sahib. 20 million people are followers of Sikhism, that makes it the fifth largest religion in the world. It is most popular in Asia. Sikhs are usually identified by the Turban that they wear, but not all wear turbans.
Sikhism was started around 1500 by Guru Nanak Dev, the first of the "Ten Gurus". It took on a distinct identity in 1699, celebrated by Vaisakhi. This is when Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth guru, started the baptism with Khande di Pahul, and the Sikhs were required to keep the 5 Ks. This is also called the birth of the Khalsa.


Sikhism teaches that God lasts forever, can not be seen, and has no body. It is taught that he created the universe, can destroy it, and keeps it running. He is considered to be infinite, or he always existed and always will. Sikh's worship him, and meditate on his name. They believe everything is a part of God.

Followers are all trying to reach salvation, meaning they are trying to break the process of rebirth and become one with God. The thing that is keeping people from reaching union is bad karma. Bad karma is taught to be caused by pride, anger, greed, attachment and lust. Sikhs try to stay away from these things.

The term guru comes from the Sanskrit "gurū", which means teacher, guide, or mentor. The traditions and philosophy of Sikhism were established by ten specific gurus from 1469 to 1708. Each guru added to and reinforced the message taught by the previous, and this resulted in the creation of the Sikh religion.

And the eternal Guru is the Sri Guru Granth Sahib, which is a not just a book but contains the writings of each Guru.

The 5 Ks are the things Sikhs wear at all times. They are:



</doc>
<doc id="21593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21593" title="Kaveri River">
Kaveri River

Kaveri is a river in south India. It flows from Karnataka to Tamil Nadu. More information can be found under the page Kaveri River


</doc>
<doc id="21595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21595" title="Bhopal">
Bhopal

Bhopal is the capital of Madhya Pradesh, India, and the second largest city of the state, after Indore. Bhopal is also called the City of Lakes. It is the headquarters of Bhopal District. It is in the central part of India.

The city is believed to have first called Bhojpal, named after the King of Bhoj. According to this theory, it was later changed to Bhopal.

Bhopal has an average elevation of 499 metres (1637 ft). 

In 1984 a poisoned gas was leaked from a private chemical factory at night when a worker was cleaning out a clogged pipe with water from a tank. The tank had 42 tons of methyl isocyanate (MIC). Over 20,000 people died, and many people became sick. Many animals were also killed. This has been called the "world's worst industrial disaster".


</doc>
<doc id="21596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21596" title="Dialect">
Dialect

A dialect is a type of language spoken by a group of people. Sometimes people who live in the same place make a dialect. Sometimes people who are similar in some way make a dialect.

There is no agreed difference between a "dialect" and a "language". Some dialects are called "languages". They may spell words differently and even be known as a language (for example, English is sometimes called a Germanic dialect). 

Other dialects are different types of a language that come from different places or countries (for example, British English and American English are dialects of English). 

Differences in dialects can be found:



</doc>
<doc id="21597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21597" title="Thanjavur">
Thanjavur

Thanjavur is a town in Tamil Nadu, India. It was the capital of earlier Chola Kingdom. It is called the "Rice Bowl" of Tamil Nadu. Cauvery river flows through Thanjavur.


</doc>
<doc id="21598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21598" title="Trichy">
Trichy

Trichy or Tiruchi is a city in Tamil Nadu, India. Its real name in Tamil is Tiruchirapalli, meaning "Town of the respected Chira (name of a Jain monk)". It was also called Trichinopoly by the British. About 10,67,912 people lived there in 2008. It is a very old city with many important temples, monuments, churches and mosques. The famous temples being Rockfort Temple, Srirangam Temple, Thiruvanaikkovil Temple, Samayapuram Temple, Nachiyar Kovil etc. Nearby, Woraiyur, the old Trichy, is where the early Chola kings had their capital city, until about 850. There are picnic / sightseeing spots in and around trichy like Kallanai (Grand Anaicut) built by Karikala Cholan, Mukkombu. 


</doc>
<doc id="21599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21599" title="Brihadisvara Temple">
Brihadisvara Temple

The Brihadisvara Temple (or Brihadeeswara Temple) is a Shiva temple in Thanjavur, India. It was built in the 10th century and was the first temple made totally of granite.

Between two rectangular areas, the main temple sits. There is a tall, 66 metre high tower above it.


</doc>
<doc id="21600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21600" title="Lozi">
Lozi

Lozi could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="21602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21602" title="Oman">
Oman

The Sultanate of Oman is a country in the southwestern part of Asia, on the southeast coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It borders the United Arab Emirates to the northwest, Saudi Arabia to the west, and Yemen to the southwest. The coast is formed by the Arabian Sea to the south and east, and the Gulf of Oman to the northeast.
The country is a monarchy. The capital of the Sultanate is Muscat.


</doc>
<doc id="21604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21604" title="Refugee">
Refugee

In 1951, the United Nations (UN) law called Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, said a refugee was a person who is forced to leave their country due to natural disasters or war and conflict.

owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group, or political opinion, is outside the country of their nationality, and is unable to or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail him/herself of the protection of that country.

In 1967 the Conventions’ 1967 protocol and by regional conventions in Africa and Latin America to include persons who had fled war and violence in their country. A person who is seeking to be recognized as a refugee is an asylum seeker. In the United States a recognized asylum seeker is known as an asylee.

A refugee is a person who has to leave his or her country. This can be because of different reasons:



</doc>
<doc id="21606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21606" title="Copperbelt">
Copperbelt

Copperbelt is a province in the northern part of Zambia. It is named after the copper reserves. It has an area of 31,328 km. It occupies the upper portion of the Kafue river basin on the central plateau of southern Africa, 900 to 1,500 m above sea level.


</doc>
<doc id="21607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21607" title="Levy Mwanawasa">
Levy Mwanawasa

Levy Patrick Mwanawasa (September 3, 1948 – August 19, 2008) was a Zambian politician. He was the President of Zambia from January 2002 to his death.


</doc>
<doc id="21609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21609" title="Cherokee">
Cherokee

The Cherokee ("ah-ni-yv-wi-ya" in Cherokee language) are Native Americans who at the time of European contact in the 16th century lived in the area that is now the eastern and southeastern United States before most were forcefully moved to the Ozark hills. They were one of the tribes referred to as the Five Civilized Tribes.

Cherokee people did not live in tepees. They lived in houses made from wood. In the 19th century, a man named Sequoyah introduced a form of writing the Cherokee language. For this, he was awarded a medal.

Chief John Ross was the leader of the Cherokee tribe from 1818 until 1867. He lived in Georgia before being forced to move to the place now called Oklahoma. 


</doc>
<doc id="21611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21611" title="Soup">
Soup

A soup is a kind of food. People make soups by boiling things in water. Then they put the things they boiled into a bowl and eat them. Vegetables are in most soups. You can also put meat in soups. Soups that are thicker than normal, with more meat and vegetables, are stews.


</doc>
<doc id="21612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21612" title="1420s">
1420s



</doc>
<doc id="21613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21613" title="Hyderabad, India">
Hyderabad, India

Hyderabad (pronounced ) is the capital of the state of Andhra Pradesh in India. At over 4 million, it has the largest population of any city in the state. Hyderabad is an A-1 city under the terms of development priorities. It is also known as "city of pearls" or "city of nizams". The people of Hyderabad are called "Hyderabadis".

The city is home to the Ramoji Film City which has of over of land. The movie industry here is called "Tollywood".

Archaeologists have found Iron Age sites in Hyderabad that are 2,500 years old. These sites have been found near Haythnagar and Ramoji Film City, and have burials and tools. In 1143, Kakatiyas ruled Hyderabad from Golconda Fort. Later on, the city fell under Brahmani Sultanate. After the fall of the sultanate, the Qutub Shahi kings ruled Hyderabad. There were seven of them, whose burials are very near to the Golconda Fort. Muhammad Quli Qutub Shah was a Qutub Shahi ruler who ordered the construction of the Charminar. Nawab Abdul Hassan Shah who is popularly known as Tanisha was the last Qutub Shahi ruler of Hyderabad before Aurangzeb captured it in 1687. Asaf Jah I was declared the governor of Hyderabad by Aurangzeb. He defeated a rival official to gain control over the country. This is how the Asaf Jahi Dynasty began which ruled Hyderabad till 1948.

Hyderabad became a princely state in 1947. Before that, it was under British rule. The Nizam rulers were willing to rule Hyderabad themselves wanted to join Pakistan. But soon the Nizam had to sign an Instrument of Accession to the Union of India so that Hyderabad becomes a part of India. On November 1, 1956, the province of Hyderabad was divided into Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh on the basis of language. So, Hyderabad came into the Telugu speaking community and thus became the capital of Andhra Pradesh.

The city has now developed in fields of IT with four IT colleges including JNTU (Jawaharlal Nehru's Technological Institute). The rise of International Airport and real estate has a major impact on the development of Hyderabad..

Hyderabad is situated at the Deccan Plateau, 500 meters above the sea level and most of the area is rocky. Paddy is the main crop grown and other crops include Bengal gram, groundnut, sugar cane and sunflower. Hyderabad was found on the banks of Musi in 1591.r Today that area is known as old city where Mecca Masjid and Hussain Sagar Lake exist. The area has many official buildings and that area is very old. From the recent time, Hyderabad has been merged with Secunderabad. This has led a large, united and populous city with many villages surrounding it.
Hyderabad has a wet and dry climate. The monsoon or rainy season is from late June until early October. On average, 32 inches of rain falls on the city each year. The highest temperature ever recorded was 45.5 °C (113.9 °F) on 2 June 1966. The lowest recorded temperature was 1.1 °C (43 °F) on 8 January 1946. It is cooler in the evenings and mornings because the city is high above sea level.

The city has a population of over four million. Hindus form the majority while Muslims are 40% of the population. The Muslim community of Hyderabad is largest in Andhra Pradesh. Muslims are mainly located in and around the old city. Christians are small in number in the city. Famous Churches include those around Abids and Secunderabad like St. Josephs Cathedral.

The Charminar is said to be at the exact place where Quli Qutb Shah prayed for the end to a plague epidemic. The Charminar has long been the icon of Hyderabad. The name means "Four minarets". The towers rise to a height of 48.7 m above the ground. There is a mosque with 45 prayer spaces in the upper storeys of the building. There is also a hindu temple at the bottom of one of the minarets.

The Golconda Fort was the capital of the Qutb Shahi kingdom. In the 16th century, it was the center of a busy diamond trade. The outer wall of the fort is 10 km around.

Mecca Masjid is one of the oldest mosques in the city and one of the biggest. Muhammed Quli Qutub Shah began building it in 1617. Mughal emperor Aurangzeb finished the building in 1694. The mosque is made of granite. The main hall of the mosque is 75 feet high, 220 feet wide and 180 feet long. Ten thousand worshippers can fit inside at the same time. The entrance arches are made of single slabs of granite. It is believed that Muhammed Quli had bricks made from earth brought from Mecca. He used them the central arch of the mosque. This explains the name of the mosque.

The Chowmahalla Palace was Asaf Jahi dynasty capital. The Nizam entertained official guests and royal visitors here.

Nawab Viqar al-Umra built Falaknuma Palace in 1872. The palace includes sculptures by artists from Florence.

Telugu, Urdu and Hindi are mainly spoken in Hyderabad. English is also spoken among the educated people. The Telugu spoken here has a few words of Urdu mixed in it. Because Urdu is mixed with Telugu and Farsi, it gave rise to a new dialect, Hyderabadi Urdu. Telugu varies across the state but the language remains the same.
Hyderabadi words mostly use hau, nakko...etc.,



</doc>
<doc id="21614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21614" title="Manmohan Singh">
Manmohan Singh

Manmohan Singh is the Prime Minister of India.


</doc>
<doc id="21615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21615" title="Indira Gandhi">
Indira Gandhi

Indira Gandhi (19 November 1917 – 31 October 1984) was the first woman to become Prime Minister of India. She is the daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru, who was also Prime Minister of India. Her son, Rajiv Gandhi, also later became Prime Minister of India. Born Indira Nehru, she married Feroze Gandhi, who had changed his name from "Feroze Khan" and was not related to the famous civil rights leader, Mahatma Gandhi, who helped India gain freedom.

Indria Gandhi was the first lady prime minister of India. Her dad was the president of India. Indira Gandhi was assassinated In 1984 at the age of 66. Indira Nehru Gandhi was born on November 19, 1917 and would be the only child of Jawaharlal and Kamala Nehru. Her road to power and politics started when she turned twelve years of age. During the time of British imperialism, many Indian National Congress workers from Allahabad did not know when or if the British would arrest them or search their homes. In 1938, Indira finally joined the Indian National Congress Party, something she always longed to do. Fortunately, India won its independence from Britain in 1947. After Shastri's death in 1966, Indira Gandhi served as prime minister until India held the next election. She won that election, and in 1967, became one of the first women ever elected to lead a democracy. 

Indira Gandhi were Prime Minister of India two times. She served the first time between 1966 and 1977 and the second time between 1980 and 1984. She also studied at the University of Oxford. 


</doc>
<doc id="21616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21616" title="Nintendo 64">
Nintendo 64

Nintendo 64 (commonly abbreviated N64) was the third video game console released by Nintendo. It was released in 1996 and was meant to compete against the Sony PlayStation and the Sega Saturn. The Nintendo 64 was Nintendo's first console with 3D graphics. It uses plastic cartridges instead of CDs or disks, making load times faster. Because of this, the games cost more to make. The controller for the Nintendo 64 was shaped like an "M" and had 10 buttons and a joystick. Sony used the N64 joystick design to make their DualShock PlayStation controller.

Because making games for the Nintendo 64 was more expensive than making games for the PlayStation, many video game companies did not make games for the N64. They made them for the PlayStation instead. Nintendo also did not like games that had a lot of blood or violence in them. Companies who made these kinds of games made them for the PlayStation instead. However, some game makers did make some violent games for the Nintendo 64, such as Rare's first-person shooter "Perfect Dark". Nintendo lost its lead over Sega and Sony because of these two things.



</doc>
<doc id="21623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21623" title="Phobos">
Phobos

Phobos (Greek for "fear", is the root word of "phobia") is one of the sons of Ares and Aphrodite in Greek mythology and the twin brother of Deimos. He is known as the god of fear, panic, flight and battlefield rout. He went with his father into battle, driving his chariot and spreading fear in his path. As a son of Aphrodite, goddess of love, each twin also represented the fear of loss.

The larger and innermost of Mars' two moons was named after him, and the other was named after Deimos.


</doc>
<doc id="21625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21625" title="Deimos">
Deimos

Deimos (Greek word for "fear" or "terror") is one of the sons of Ares and Aphrodite in Greek mythology. Deimos is one of the two moons of Mars.


</doc>
<doc id="21629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21629" title="Krakatoa">
Krakatoa

Krakatoa (Indonesian name: "Krakatau") is a volcano near the Indonesian island of Rakata in the Sunda Strait. It has erupted repeatedly in known history. The best known of these events occurred in late August 1883.

The 1883 eruption ejected more than six cubic miles (25 cubic kilometres) of rock, ash, and pumice , and made the loudest sound ever recorded by human beings — the sound was heard as far away as Perth in Australia (very far), and the island of Rodrigues near Mauritius (Very far). Many thousands of people were killed and injured by the eruption, mostly in the tsunami (giant wave) which followed the explosion.

The eruption destroyed two-thirds of the what was then the island of Krakatoa. New eruptions at the volcano since 1927 have built a new island, called "Anak Krakatau" (child of Krakatoa).



</doc>
<doc id="21630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21630" title="Goldfish">
Goldfish

Goldfish are pet fish that people keep in aquariums, fish-tanks or fresh water
Goldfish belong to the Carp family and were domesticated in China in the 7th century. They can reach up to 59 cm in size, and 3 kg in weight. This is very rare though, and most goldfish grow to only half that size or less. In captivity, goldfish can live for up to 20 years. In the aquarium, however, most will die earlier because their tank is much too small. Goldfish need a lot of space so they have room to swim and so the water does not get dirty too fast. It is sometimes said that goldfish have very short memories, but scientists have proven that this is not true. One person trained a goldfish to kick a small ball under water and another trained a goldfish to swim through a maze.

There are many kinds of goldfish. The most common kind is golden-colored, but goldfish come in many different shapes and sizes. Many gold fish have fancy tails. Another common kind is called a black moor, which is black colored.

Goldfish are very sensitive and should not be stroked. Touching them can hurt them and make them sick.

Wild Goldfish are called prussian carp and are silver-green in colour.

Goldfish can get sick. They can have big stomachs filled with liquids (water) or can get spotty because of bad bacteria, and some lose control of swimming because a special organ in their belly, called a swim bladder, gets sick and stops working. However, sick goldfishes can be cured with medicine. Pet shops or veterinarians can help goldfish get better when they are sick. One simple way to help your goldfish if it has indigestion is to feed them peas, as this will help their digestive track work properly.


</doc>
<doc id="21631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21631" title="Premature ejaculation">
Premature ejaculation

Premature ejaculation (also known as PE) is a condition affecting many men. It is when during sexual intercourse (sex) the male can not stop himself from ejaculating after starting sex. 

The condition is usually curable or at least treatable by a few exercises. (There are more exercises than these, however, these are the most common.)

One exercise is to create an erection and begin to lose it, then stimulate it again. This exercise is best done alone at first and then with a partner. Thrusting should not be used with a partner until very near the end of treatment. This treatment may take several weeks to fully cure the problem if it is used properly. 

Another treatment involves using the muscle which stops urine. To locate the muscle, simply begin urinating and stop quickly before emptying the bladder. Doing that, will demonstrate how to use the muscle. Then whenever convenient use the muscle. You do not need to be urinating to use the muscle and it is suggested you are not. After a few weeks of both these treatments, the PE will become more like traditional ejaculation and after about one and a half to two and a half months, it should be absolutely normal.


</doc>
<doc id="21639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21639" title="Witch">
Witch

A witch is a person who practices witchcraft.
A Warlock is not a male witch, Warlock means traitor or devil.
The stereotypical witches are commonly portrayed as wicked old women who have wrinkled skin, pimples, and pointy hats. They wear clothes that are black or purple. They also have warts on their noses and sometimes long claw-like fingernails. 

The belief in witchcraft is in many cultures worldwide. Witches have often been seen outside accepted cultures and faith. As a consequences, people often made witches feel unwanted in their societies. 

In the Bible, the punishment for witchcraft is death (Exodus 22:18, "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live," meaning "you should not let a witch live"). "Witch" in the Bible means summoner of spirits, so it might really mean warlock. In Europe in the early modern period, of witches (witch hunts and witchcraft trials) took place. Many Christians were scared of witches and witchcraft at that time. As a result, about sixty thousand people were tried for witchcraft, and executed. Most were hanged. Some were burned at the stake (tied to a long pole and burned alive). Especially in the early modern period, this punishment was often applied.

The Salem trials were among these trials. Gilles Corey was one of the people accused of witchcraft. Because he knew that he had done no wrong, Corey simply refused to speak. He was pressed to death. 

Women were burned at the stake for simply sweeping their porches on Sundays or putting herbs in a soup. 

Among those punished were people who did not live peacefully with their rulers, like Joan of Arc. Queen Anne Boleyn was accused of being a witch and was said to have had a large mole on her neck and a sixth finger, though this was likely invented by her ennemies. 

There were some men (for example, Johann Weyer, Friedrich Spee and Anton Praetorius) who protested against torture and against the chase of witches.

During the early Modern Age, the (mostly Catholic) Church developed a whole set of teachings and beliefs about witches. These beliefs were centered around the following:

People believed that a witch had certain things that clearly identified her as a witch. Some of these were:

People believed that witches had a pact with the devil. The "diabolical mark" (or mark of the devil) was a token left on the skin of the witch. 

Most of the time, this was believed to be a mole or birthmark. It was said that since this was a sign of the devil, touching (or picking) it would not hurt the person. People also though that this mark could not bleed.

This soon developed into a safe test for witchcraft. Most often, special "techniques" were used by those doing the test, so that the pricked spot would not bleed, or hurt. Some needles were also found that were special. When touching the skin, the needle would go into its shaft. In that way it could not be felt, and did of course not bleed. Many innocent people were wrongfully convicted because of this test.

In the 20th century, a new attempt has been made at understanding witchcraft. Many people say that witches were in fact wise women who were hunted down by the church (mostly for their knowledge of herbs to treat certain diseases). This has led to a new movement. Some of it is known as Wicca. Some of it is known as Shamanism. Often, women understand this as a way to express themselves. Sometimes feminists have also spoken about it. Some of the rites have also been used as a form of protest.

All of the following persons were real people.



</doc>
<doc id="21644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21644" title="1210s">
1210s



</doc>
<doc id="21646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21646" title="West Bank">
West Bank

The West Bank is a piece of land in the Middle East. It touches the Dead Sea and the River Jordan. The lanscape is mostly hills or desert. The weather in the summer is hot and dry. it is cooler and rainy in the winter.
Right now, the area is under the control of Israel. Some Israelis and other nations disagree on whose it really is.

Right now, talks between the Israeli government and the Palestinian National Authority, which leads Palestine, are taking place. These talks are about what will happen in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in the future. Most people on the West Bank are Palestinians but there also many Jewish settlers in settlements. There has been some controversy about these settlements.


</doc>
<doc id="21647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21647" title="Jan Hus">
Jan Hus

Jan Hus/John Huss, born circa 1369 in Husinec, Bohemia (now Czech Republic) was a Bohemian religious thinker and reformer. He started a religious movement based on the ideas of John Wyclif. His followers became known as Hussites. The Roman Catholic Church has not tolerated such heresies. Hus was excommunicated in 1411, condemned by the Council of Constance, and burned at the stake on July 6, 1415, in Konstanz (aka Constance), Germany.


Many of his teachings were later taken up by Martin Luther who also published some of the things he wrote in prison. 


</doc>
<doc id="21648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21648" title="Konstanz">
Konstanz

Konstanz (English often Constance) is a university town with a population of around 80,000, on the shore of Lake Constance in the south-west corner of Germany, bordering Switzerland. The history of the city goes back to Ancient Rome. In the 15th century, the Council of Constance was held there. This ended the Western Schism. Jan Hus was burned as a heretic at the council.


</doc>
<doc id="21655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21655" title="Panther">
Panther

Panther can mean:




All these animals belong to the Felidae family.


</doc>
<doc id="21656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21656" title="Instant messaging">
Instant messaging

Instant messaging (IM) is a form of communication between two or more people based on typed text. The text is delivered via computers connected over a network such as the Internet.

Instant messaging requires an instant messaging client that connects to an instant messaging service. Instant messaging is different from e-mail in that conversations happen in real-time. A multiprotocol instant messaging application allows one client to connect to multiple IM networks.

Instant messaging services owe many ideas to an older and still popular online chat medium named Internet Relay Chat (IRC). In early instant messaging programs, each letter appeared when it was typed, and when letters were deleted to correct typos this was also seen in real time. This made it more like a telephone conversation than exchanging letters. In modern instant messaging programs, the other party in the conversation generally only sees each line of text right after a new line is started. Most instant messaging applications also include the ability to set a status message. This is similar to the message on a telephone answering machine. It shows whether or not people are available to chat.

Instant messaging offers real-time communication and allows easy collaboration, which might be considered more akin to genuine conversation than email's "letter" format. In contrast to e-mail, the parties know whether the peer is available. Most systems allow the user to set an "online status" or "away message" so peers are notified when the user is available, busy, or away from the computer. On the other hand, people are not forced to reply immediately to incoming messages. For this reason, some people consider communication via instant messaging to be less intrusive than communication via phone. However, not all popular systems allow the sending of messages to people not currently logged on ("offline messages"), thus removing much of the difference between IM and email.

Instant messaging allows instantaneous communication between a number of parties simultaneously, by transmitting information quickly and efficiently, featuring immediate receipt of acknowledgment or reply. In certain cases IM involves additional features, which make it even more popular, i.e. to see the other party, e.g. by using ((web-cams)), or to talk directly for free over the internet.

It is possible to save a conversation for later reference. Instant messages typically are may be logged in a local message history which closes the gap to the persistent nature of e-mails and facilitates quick exchange of information like URLs or document snippets (which can be unwieldy when communicated via telephone).

Instant messaging applications began to appear in the 1970s on multi-user operating systems like UNIX, initially to facilitate communication with other users logged in to the same machine, then on the local network, and subsequently across the Internet. Some of these used a peer-to-peer protocol (e.g. talk, ntalk and ytalk), while others required peers to connect to a server (see talker and IRC). Because all of these protocols were based inside a console window, most of those discovering the Internet in the mid-1990s and equating it with the web tended not to encounter them. 

In the last half of the 1980s and into the early 1990s, the Quantum Link online service for Commodore 64 computers offered user-to-user messages between currently connected customers which they called "On-Line Messages" (or OLM for short). Quantum Link's better known later incarnation, America Online (AOL), offers a similar product under the name "AOL Instant Messages" (AIM). While the Quantum Link service ran on a Commodore 64, using only the Commodore's PETSCII text-graphics, the screen was visually divided up into sections and OLMs would appear as a yellow bar saying "Message From:" and the name of the sender along with the message across the top of whatever the user was already doing, and presented a list of options for responding. As such, it could be considered a sort of GUI, albeit much more primitive than the later Unix, Windows and Macintosh based GUI IM programs. OLMs were what Q-Link called "Plus Services" meaning they charged an extra per-minute fee on top of the monthly Q-Link access costs.

Modern, Internet-wide, GUI-based messaging clients, as they are known today, began to take off in the mid 1990s with ICQ (1996) being the first, followed by AOL Instant Messenger (AOL Instant Messenger, 1997). AOL later acquired Mirabilis, the creators of ICQ. A few years later ICQ (by now owned by AOL) was awarded two patents for instant messaging by the U.S. patent office. Meanwhile, other companies developed their own applications (Yahoo, MSN, Excite, Ubique, IBM), each with its own proprietary protocol and client; users therefore had to run multiple client applications if they wished to use more than one of these networks. 

In 2000, an open source application and open standards-based protocol called Jabber was launched. Jabber servers could act as gateways to other IM protocols, reducing the need to run multiple clients. Modern multi-protocol clients such as Pidgin, Trillian, Adium and Miranda can use any of the popular IM protocols without the need for a server gateway. 

Recently, many instant messaging services have begun to offer video conferencing features, Voice Over IP (VoIP) and web conferencing services. Web conferencing services integrate both video conferencing and instant messaging capabilities. Some newer instant messaging companies are offering desktop sharing, IP radio, and IPTV to the voice and video features.

The term "instant messenger" is a service mark of Time Warner and may not be used in software not affiliated with AOL in the United States. For this reason, the instant messaging client formerly known as Gaim or gaim announced in April 2007 that they would be renamed "Pidgin".

There have been several attempts to create a unified standard for instant messaging: IETF's SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) and SIMPLE (SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions), APEX (Application Exchange), Prim (Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol), the open XML-based XMPP (Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol), more commonly known as Jabber and OMA's (Open Mobile Alliance) IMPS (Instant Messaging and Presence Service) created specifically for mobile devices.

Most attempts at creating a unified standard for the major IM providers (AOL, Yahoo! and Microsoft) have failed and each continues to use its own proprietary protocol.

However, while discussions at IETF were stalled, Reuters head of collaboration services, David Gurle (the founder of Microsoft's Real Time Communication and Collaboration business), surprised everybody by signing the first inter-service provider connectivity agreement in September 2003. This historic agreement enabled AIM, ICQ and MSN Messenger users to talk with Reuters Messaging counterparts and vice-versa against an access fee. Following this breakthrough agreement between networks Microsoft, Yahoo! and AOL came to a deal where Microsoft's Live Communication Server 2005 (which is interestingly also used by Reuters for its Reuters Messaging service) users would also have the possibility to talk to public instant messaging users. This deal settled once for all the protocol for interconnectivity in the market as SIP/SIMPLE and established a connectivity fee for accessing public instant messaging clouds. Separately, on October 13, 2005 Microsoft and Yahoo! announced that by (the Northern Hemisphere) summer of 2006 they would interoperate using SIP/SIMPLE which is followed on December 2005 by the AOL and Google strategic partnership deal where Google Talk users would be able to talk with AIM and ICQ users provided they have an identity at AOL.

There are two ways to combine the many disparate protocols:

Some approaches, such as that adopted by the Sonork enterprise IM software or the Jabber/XMPP network or Winpopup LAN Messenger, allow organizations to create their own private instant messaging network by enabling them to limit access to the server (often with the IM network entirely behind their firewall) and administer user permissions. Other corporate messaging systems allow registered users to also connect from outside the corporation LAN, by using a secure firewall-friendly HTTPS based protocol. Typically, a dedicated corporate IM server has several advantages such as pre-populated contact lists, integrated authentication, and better security and privacy.

Some networks have made changes to prevent them from being utilized by such multi-network IM clients. For example, Trillian had to release several revisions and patches to allow its users to access the MSN, AOL, and Yahoo! networks, after changes were made to these networks. The major IM providers typically cite the need for formal agreements as well as security concerns as reasons for making these changes.

Mobile Instant Messaging (MIM) is a presence enabled messaging service that aims to transpose the desktop messaging experience to the usage scenario of being on the move. While several of the core ideas of the desktop experience on one hand apply to a connected mobile device, others do not: Users usually only look at their phone's screen — presence status changes might occur under different circumstances as happens at the desktop, and several functional limits exist based on the fact that the vast majority of mobile communication devices are chosen by their users to fit into the palm of their hand.

Some of the form factor and mobility related differences need to be taken into account in order to create a really adequate, powerful and yet convenient mobile experience: radio bandwidth, memory size, availability of media formats, keypad based input, screen output, CPU performance and battery power are core issues that desktop device users and even nomadic users with connected notebooks are usually not exposed to.

Several formerly untackled issues have been identified and addressed within IMPS, which was developed as part of an early mobile telephone industry initiative to kick off a broader usage of mobile instant messaging. The Open Mobile Alliance has taken over this standard, formerly called Wireless Village, as IMPS V1.0 in November 2002. Since then this standards has been further developed to IMPS V1.3, the latest candidate for release, and is expected to be released before the end of 2006.

There are downloadable mobile applications offered by different independent developers that allow users to chat within public (MSN, Yahoo! , Google Talk, AIM, ICQ) and corporate (LCS, Sametime, Reuters) IM services from mobile devices.

Among the advantages of using such IM clients over SMS are: IM clients use data instead of SMS text messages; IM-like chat mode, faster and quicker messaging. Some IM software allows group communication. 

Several large scale mobile telephone industry companies are planning to jointly deliver a ubiquitous, interoperable presence enabled messaging service, built according to interoperability recommendations developed in the GSM Association. Considering these organisations are jointly representing approximately 1.5 billion active Short Text Messaging (SMS) users, it remains to be seen if such an initiative may also help to drive the different industry factions to agree on a truly interoperable approach at least for Mobile Instant Messaging sometime in the not too far future.

In the meantime, other developments have proposed usage of downloadable applications with the intention to create their own approach to IM that runs on most mobile phones worldwide. Essentially, several of these clients are Java applications are instantly downloaded and then connected to back-end servers through GPRS/3G Internet Channels. Some of the implementations can connect to other IM services.

Instant messaging opens new methods of spontaneous communication for people that have an impairment in hearing, auditory processing, or speech. It is considered by many a powerful way to allow equal opportunities in communication, without the aid of special devices or services designed for users with hearing loss.

Instant Messaging may be done in a Friend-to-friend network, in which each node connects to the friends on the friendslist. This allows to communicate to friends of friends and build chatrooms for instant messages with all friends on that network.

Instant messaging has proven to be similar to personal computers, e-mail, and the WWW, in that its adoption for use as a business communications medium was driven primarily by individual employees using consumer software at work, rather than by formal mandate or provisioning by corporate information technology departments. Tens of millions of the consumer IM accounts in use are being used for business purposes by employees of companies and other organizations. 

In response to the demand for business-grade IM and the need to ensure security and legal compliance, a new type of instant messaging, called "Enterprise Instant Messaging" ("EIM") was created when Lotus Software launched Lotus Sametime in 1999. Microsoft followed suit shortly thereafter with Microsoft Exchange Instant Messaging, and later created a new platform called Microsoft Office Live Communications Server. Since then, both IBM Lotus and Microsoft have introduced federation between their EIM systems and some of the public IM networks thus employees may use a single interface to both their internal EIM system and their buddies on AOL, MSN, and Yahoo!. Current leading EIM platforms include IBM Lotus Sametime, Microsoft Office Live Communications Server, and Jabber XCP.

The adoption of IM across corporate networks outside of the control of IT organizations creates many risks and liabilities for companies who do not effectively manage and support IM use. Companies implement specialized IM archiving and security products and services like those from Secure Computing, Akonix, Surfcontrol, and ScanSafe to mitigate these risks and provide safe, secure, productive instant messaging capabilities to their employees.

Although instant messaging has many good things, it also has risks and liabilities, especially when used in "workplaces". Among these are:


Hackers' use of instant messaging networks to deliver malicious code has grown consistently from 2004 to the present, with the number of discrete attacks listed by the IM Security Center having grown 15% from 347 attacks in 2005 to 406 in 2006. Hackers use two methods of delivering malicious code through IM: delivery of virus, trojan, or spyware within an infected file, and the use of "socially engineered" text with a web address that entices the recipient to click on a URL that connects him or her to a website that then downloads malicious code. Viruses, worms, and trojans typically propagate by sending themselves rapidly through the infected user's buddy list. An effective attack using a "poison URL" may reach tens of thousands of people in minutes when each person's buddy list receives messages appearing to be from a trusted friend. The recipients click on the web address, and the entire cycle starts again. Infections may range from nuisance to criminal, and are becoming more sophisticated each year. 

In addition to the malicious code threat, the use of instant messaging at work also creates a risk of non-compliance to laws and regulations governing the use of electronic communications in businesses. In the United States alone there are over 10,000 laws and regulations related to electronic messaging and records retention. The more well-known of these include the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, HIPAA, and SEC 17a-3. Recent changes to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, effective December 1, 2006, create a new category for electronic records which may be requested during discovery (law) in legal proceedings. Most countries around the world also regulate the use of electronic messaging and electronic records retention in similar fashion to the United States. The most common regulations related to IM at work involve the need to produce archived business communications to satisfy government or judicial requests under law. Many instant messaging communications fall into the category of business communications that must be archived and retrievable. 

Organizations of all types must protect themselves from the liability of their employees' inappropriate use of IM. The informal, immediate, and ostensibly anonymous nature of instant messaging makes it a candidate for abuse in the workplace. The topic of inappropriate IM use became front page news in October 2006 when Congressman Mark Foley resigned his seat after admitting sending offensive instant messages of a sexual nature to underage former House pages from his Congressional office PC. The Mark Foley Scandal led to media coverage and mainstream newspaper articles warning of the risks of inappropriate IM use in workplaces. In most countries, corporations have a legal responsibility to ensure harassment-free work environment for employees. The use of corporate-owned computers, networks, and software to harass an individual or spread inappropriate jokes or language creates a liability for not only the offender but also the employer. A survey by IM archiving and security provider Akonix Systems, Inc. in March 2007 showed that 31% of respondents had been harassed over IM at work. Companies now include instant messaging as an integral component of their policies on appropriate use of the World Wide Web, email, and other corporate assets.

In the early 2000s, a new class of IT security provider emerged to provide remedies for the risks and liabilities faced by corporations who chose to use IM for business communications. The IM security providers created new products to be installed in corporate networks for the purpose of archiving, content-scanning, and security-scanning IM traffic moving in and out of the corporation. Similar to the e-mail filtering vendors, the IM security providers focus on the risks and liabilities described above.

With rapid adoption of IM in the workplace, demand for IM security products began to grow in the mid-2000s. By 2007, the preferred platform for the purchase of security software had become the "appliance", according to IDC, who estimate that by 2008, 80% of network security products will be delivered via an appliance.




</doc>
<doc id="21661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21661" title="AOL">
AOL

America Online (or AOL) is a U.S.-based online service provider and Internet service provider. It has been in business since 1985.

AOL Instant Messenger is a service which allows to communicate with any user currently online. AIM has millions of users worldwide. There are also other computer programs that can be used to talk with your AIM account, for example Trillian, Pidgin, Digsby, and AIM+. 

Other AOL products are AOL Spyware Protection, AOL Safety and Security Center, ICQ, AOl Computer Check-Up, AOL Explorer,AOL TopSpeed, AOL Dialer, AOL One-Click Fixes and AOL Openride.



</doc>
<doc id="21673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21673" title="Youssef Rzouga">
Youssef Rzouga

Youssef Rzouga is a Tunisian poet, born on March 21 1957 in Mahdia,Tunisia.







</doc>
<doc id="21674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21674" title="Mailman">
Mailman

A mailman or mail carrier is a person who brings people their postal mail. Normally he works for the post office of the respective country. Of course, there are also women doing this job. They are called mailwomen. For a layman, this occupation is called "letter carriers". 

Mailmen are traditionally shown as acting unusually, relating mainly to dogs. They are deathly afraid of the animals, even to the point of shock.


</doc>
<doc id="21675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21675" title="Chinese postman problem">
Chinese postman problem

The Chinese postman problem is a mathematical problem of Graph theory. It is also known as route inspection problem. Suppose there is a mailman who needs to deliver mail to a certain neighborhood. That mailman is lazy, so he wants to find the shortest route through the neighborhood, that meets the following criteria:


If the graph traveled has an Eulerian Circuit, this circuit is the ideal solution.

Alan Goldman of the U.S. National Bureau of Standards first coined the name 'Chinese Postman Problem' for this problem, as it was originally studied by the Chinese mathematician Mei-Ku Kuan in 1962.



</doc>
<doc id="21677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21677" title="Four color theorem">
Four color theorem

The four color theorem is a theorem of mathematics. It says that in any plane surface with regions in it (people think of them as maps), the regions can be colored with no more than four colors. Two regions that have a common border must not get the same color. They are called "adjacent" (next to each other) if they share a segment of the border, not just a point.

This was the first theorem to be proved by a computer, in a "proof by exhaustion". In proof by exhaustion, the conclusion is established by dividing it into cases, and proving each one separately. The number of cases sometimes may be very large. For example, the first proof of the four color theorem was a proof by exhaustion with 1,936 cases. This proof was controversial because most of the cases were checked by a computer program, not by hand. The shortest known proof of the four colour theorem today still has over 600 cases.

It is quite obvious that there are maps that cannot be colored in this way with only three colors. On the other hand, four colors are enough for every map.


</doc>
<doc id="21678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21678" title="Theorem">
Theorem

A theorem is a proven idea in mathematics. Theorems are proved using logic and other theorems that have already been proved. A theorem that someone must prove so that he/she can prove another theorem is called a lemma. Theorems are made of two parts, there are hypotheses and conclusions. 

Theorems use deduction, in contrast to theories which are empirical.

Some theorems are trivial, they directly follow from the propositions. Other theorems are called "deep", their proof is long and difficult. Sometimes, such proofs involve other areas of matematics or show connections between different areas. A theorem might be simple to state and yet be deep. An excellent example is Fermat's Last Theorem, and there are many other examples of simple yet deep theorems in number theory and combinatorics, among other areas. 

There are other theorems for which a proof is known, but it cannot easily be written down. Among the best examples are the four color theorem and the Kepler conjecture. Both of these theorems are only known to be true by reducing them to a computational search which is then verified by a computer program. At first, many mathematicians did not accept this form of proof, but it has become more widely accepted in recent years. The mathematician Doron Zeilberger has even gone so far as to claim that these are possibly the only nontrivial results that mathematicians have ever proved. Many mathematical theorems can be reduced to more straightforward computation, including polynomial identities, trigonometric identities and hypergeometric identities.



</doc>
<doc id="21679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21679" title="Triceratops">
Triceratops

Triceratops was a herbivorous dinosaur genus from the latest Cretaceous. Its name came from having three horns on their (Greek "tri" = three + "keratops" = horned face) they They were mainly found in North America. They were about 9 m (30 ft) long, and probably weighed around 5,400 kg (12,000 lb).



</doc>
<doc id="21682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21682" title="Border">
Border

The Border between two regions is the thin line, where one region is next to the other. If the regions are countries, the border can only be crossed at certain points. To cross the border, a passport or a visa might be necessary. Such as the Wagah boder between Pakistan and the Republic of India.


</doc>
<doc id="21683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21683" title="Genus">
Genus

A Genus is a group of living things that are similar. Grouping creatures in a scientific way is a kind of taxonomy. When scientists talk about one genus of animals or plants, they mean several species of those animals or plants that are closely related to each other.

The word changes differently from other English words because it comes from Latin. "Genus" is the singular for only one group, and "genera" is the plural form of the word for two or more groups. Several genera make up a family. 

When writing a scientific name of an organism, you need to write the name with the genus in front. For example, ""Felis silvestris catus"", Felis is the genus. The genus must always begin with a capital letter.

Some people use a special rhyme or sentence called a mnemonic to help remember something difficult like a list. In one mnemonic to remember biological taxonomy, genus is the word "glass". Here is one example: "Kings play chess on folding glass stools" to remember "Kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus, species".


</doc>
<doc id="21684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21684" title="Cretaceous">
Cretaceous

The Cretaceous period is the longest period in the Phanerozoic eon, lasting from 145 to 65 million years ago, a total of 80 million years. It is the last period in the Mesozoic era. It followed the Jurassic period, and was followed by the Cainozoic era. 

Though famous for its land fauna, the Cretaceous sea level rose much higher than today, so that North America was partly covered by an epicontinental sea, and half of Britain was under water. In the Upper Cretaceous, chalk, a type of limestone, was laid down in warm shallow seas. Chalk is 95% to 99% made up of coccoliths, the calcium carbonate (CaCO3) plates which tiny single-celled algae (coccolithophorids) produce.

At its end came the famous meteorite strike which, with the volcanic flood basalts spewed out in the Deccan (India), ended so many of the dominant life-forms: see K/T extinction event.

The Cretaceous period has just two very long epochs:

The Lower Cretaceous at ~47 million years, is the longest epoch in the Phanerozoic eon.


</doc>
<doc id="21688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21688" title="Whole number">
Whole number

A whole number usually means an ordinary number like 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and so on. Fractions, decimals, and negative numbers are not whole numbers.

What is confusing is that some people say that zero is not a whole number. And some people say that negative numbers are whole numbers. So the real answer to what is a whole number is, that it depends on which book you are reading or which teacher you have. That is why some people say "non-negative integers" instead of whole numbers, so everybody will know that they are including zero, and not including negative numbers.


</doc>
<doc id="21689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21689" title="Textbook">
Textbook

A textbook is a book someone uses to learn. It is usually supplied in classrooms form primary school to post secondary school. People use it to learn from it about a certain subject. They might also teach other people about that subject.

A workbook is a form of textbook but it allows the person to do exercises and practices on it.


</doc>
<doc id="21690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21690" title="Axiom">
Axiom

An Axiom is a statement of logic, that is not proved within the discussion of a problem. 

Logic can be used to deduce other theorems from the axioms.

Euclid of Alexandria was a Greek mathematician. Around the year 300BC, he made a list of axioms:
When philosophers speak about paradigms or theolgians about dogmas, they mean similar things.


</doc>
<doc id="21693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21693" title="Set">
Set

A set is an idea from mathematics. A set can hold zero or more things. A set cannot hold a particular item more than once: either that item is in the set or it is not. Multisets or "bags" are like sets in quite a few ways but can hold a certain type of item more than once.

Most mathematicians use uppercase "italic" (usually Roman) letters to write about sets. The things that are seen as elements of sets are usually written with lowercase Roman letters.

Usually, when things are put into a bag, all the things that are put in have something in common. If someone else needs to get the same set, there are different options on how to tell them:

Various things can be put into a bag. Later on, a valid question would be if a certain thing is in the bag. Mathematicians call this "element of". Something is an element of a set, if that thing can be found in the respective bag. The symbol used for this is formula_1

formula_2

Like a bag, a set can also be "empty". The empty set is like an empty bag: it has no things in it.

Two sets can be compared. This is done by looking at two different bags. If they contain the same things, they are equal.

When mathematicians talk about a set, they sometimes want to know how big a set is. They do this by counting how many elements are in the set (how many items are in the bag). The cardinality can be a simple number. The empty set has a cardinality of 0. The set formula_3 has a cardinality of 2.

Two sets have the same cardinality if we can pair up their elements -- if we can join two elements, one from each set. The set formula_3 and the set formula_5 have the same cardinality. We can pair "apple" with "sun", and "orange" with "moon". The order does not matter. It is possible to pair the elements, and none is left out. But the set formula_6 and the set formula_7 have different cardinality. 
If we try to pair them up, we always leave out one animal.

Sometimes cardinality is not a number. Sometimes a set has infinite cardinality. The set of integers is a set with infinite cardinality. Some sets with infinite cardinality are bigger (have a bigger cardinality) than others. There are more real numbers than there are natural numbers, for example. That means we cannot pair up the set of integers and the set of real numbers, even if we worked forever. If a set has the same cardinality as the set of integers, it is called a countable set. But if a set has the same cardinality as the real numbers, it is called an uncountable set.

If you look at the set {a,b} and the set {a,b,c,d}, you can see that all elements in the first set are also in the second set.<br> We say: {a,b} is a subset of {a,b,c,d}<br>
As a formula it looks like this:<br>
formula_8

When all elements of A are also elements of B, we call A a subset of B:<br>
formula_9<br>
It is usually read "A is contained in B"

Example:<br>
Every Chevrolet is an American car. So the set of all Chevrolets is contained in the set of all American cars.

There are different ways to combine sets.

The intersection formula_10 of two sets A and B is a set that contains all the elements,<br> that are both in set A and in set B.<br>
When A is the set of all cheap cars, and B is the set of all American cars,<br> then formula_10 is the set of all cheap American cars.

The union formula_12 of two sets A and B is a set that contains all the elements,<br> that are in set A or in set B.
When A is the set of all cheap cars, and B is the set of all American cars,<br> then formula_12 is the set of all cars, without all expensive cars that are not from America.

Complement can mean two different things:

formula_15 <br>
The universe U is the set of all things you speak about.<br>
When U is the set of all cars, and A is the set of all cheap cars,<br> then A is the set of all expensive cars.

formula_16<br>
It is often called the "set difference".<br>
When A is the set of all cheap cars, and B is the set of all American cars,<br> then formula_16 is the set of all expensive American cars.

If you exchange the sets in the set difference, the result is different:<br>In the example with the cars, the difference formula_18 is the set of all cheap cars, that are not made in America.

Some sets are very important to mathematics. They are used very often. One of these is the "empty set". 
Many of these sets are written using blackboard bold typeface, as shown below. Special sets include:

Each of these sets of numbers has an infinite number of elements, and formula_34. The primes are used less frequently than the others outside of number theory and related fields.

A mathematician called Bertrand Russell found that there are problems with this theory of sets. He stated this in a paradox called "Russell's paradox". An easier to understand version, closer to real life, is called the "Barber paradox":

There is a small town somewhere. In that town, there is a barber. All the men in the town do not like beards, so they either shave themselves, or they go to the barber shop to be shaved by the barber.

We can therefore make a statement about the barber himself: "The barber shaves all men that do not shave themselves. He only shaves those men (since the others shave themselves and do not need a barber to give them a shave)."

This of course raises the question: What does the barber do each morning to look clean-shaven? This is the paradox.


The following are books about sets. They may not be easy to read though:



</doc>
<doc id="21694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21694" title="Category:Tunisia">
Category:Tunisia

Tunisia


</doc>
<doc id="21696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21696" title="Maldives">
Maldives

The Maldives are a group of islands in the Indian Ocean. They are located southwest of India. They are made up of the Maldive and Suadive archipelagos, with over 1,200 islands. These islands are a part of 26 atolls. People live on about 200 of the islands. It has more than 1126 coral reefs. It is the flattest country in the world. The highest point in the Maldives is only high above the level of the sea.

Malé is the capital, with a population of 81,000 people. The main language spoken there is Dhivehi. There are many dialects, such as Addu.


</doc>
<doc id="21697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21697" title="Prime Minister of Australia">
Prime Minister of Australia

The Prime Minister of Australia is the leader of the Australian government. He or she has the most powerful political office in the Commonwealth of Australia.

The current Prime Minister of Australia, since 24 June 2010, is Julia Gillard, who is the first woman in the post, after Kevin Rudd resigned from office.



</doc>
<doc id="21698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21698" title="1190s">
1190s



</doc>
<doc id="21702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21702" title="Structure">
Structure

A structure may refer to buildings, machines and similar things made by people as well as to a rock or a mineral, atoms or sentences.



</doc>
<doc id="21704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21704" title="Hardcore punk">
Hardcore punk

Hardcore punk (or hardcore) is a style of punk music that usually sounds louder, faster and more angry than earlier punk rock music from the 1970s. Hardcore began in the 1980s in North America. Some of the important bands of the genre are Bad Brains , Black Flag, D.O.A, Minor Threat, Cro-Mags and other important youth crew and hardcore bands, such as Gorilla Biscuits and Youth Of Today. Hardcore songs often have more political lyrics (words) than songs from 1970s punk rock.

Hardcore band singers often sing by shouting the words of the song. Hardcore songs often sound like the singer is angry. Hardcore bands use electric guitars, electric bass guitar, drums, and a singer. The electric guitars in hardcore bands are distorted and noisy because the people in the band have changed the guitar strings so they play notes that are lower than those a normal guitar can play.



</doc>
<doc id="21709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21709" title="Limestone">
Limestone

Limestone is a chemical sedimentary rock, made up mostly of the mineral calcite (calcium carbonate: CaCO). When it is heated at a very high temperature, it becomes the metamorphic rock, marble. They are fairly dense, relatively easy to cut, or be shaped into blocks, and some forms are white in color. 
Limestone is easy to work with, so it is used for building and the bases of roads . Limestone became most popular in the 19th and 20th centuries for building things such as churches, banks and houses. It is used to make glass and cement. It can be used like chalk, as it is mostly calcium, so you can actually draw with the stone. People use it as decorations sometimes, as pebbles.


</doc>
<doc id="21710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21710" title="Root">
Root

The roots of a plant is the part that is usually buried in the soil. Roots are not always under the soil, though—sometimes roots can be above the ground. This is called an aerial root. 

Also, stems can sometimes be under the soil (potatoes, for example). Roots do not have leaves, and are different from stems inside.

Plants need their roots especially for three reasons: The roots take water and nutrients, a sort of food, from the soil. They also often store this food. And they fix the plants to the ground. 

However, most plant roots do not work at their best unless they have help from fungi. The symbiosis between roots and fungus is known as mycorrhiza.

There are two sorts of root systems:

Some roots go very deep into the ground. One root that was found in Arizona, USA, was 60 m below the surface.

Roots are also very strong. Some tree roots can destroy stones.Roots are not green because the cells have no chlorophyll.

Roots grow through the whole life of the plant. They grow longer from the tip, adding cells to the end of each root. The root adds cells to their tips, and they grow fatter as they add cells around their tube-like bodies.

At the tip of each root, there is a small group of tough, dead, hard cells called the "root cap". The root cap is the strongest part of the root tip, and its job is to push its way through the dirt to look for moisture and nutrients and protect the plant.

Roots are usually found underground, but in some cases this is not so. In the rainforest, the air is warm and humid (it has a lot of water). Some rainforest plants, known as epiphytes, grow right on trees. Their roots hang down in the air or running into the moss growing on the trees. They do not even need the soil: they have all they need floating around in the air or in the moss.

Some trees have roots that are above the ground "and" underground. Mangrove trees have aerial roots (roots which come up into the air). They exchange gases with the atmosphere, just as leaves do. They are an adaptation to the poor level of oxygen in the waterlogged soil of the mangrove swamp.

The banyan tree has a root system that is underground, but it also has roots that start in its branches and grow down towards the ground. These roots not only take in water and nutrients from the soil, but they also help to support the long branches of the banyan tree. Because of this extra support, banyan tree branches can be really long. A banyantree in Lahaina, Maui, which was planted in 1873 by a man named William Owen Smith, has branches that are so long that this single tree covers a full square block in the city.

There are two main kinds of roots systems: "taproot systems" and "fibrous root systems". A taproot system has one thick main root growing down from the plant's stem, and lots of smaller "secondary roots" branching off from this. A taproot system is usually deeper than it is wide. Often, we eat taproots, like carrots and turnips.

A "fibrous root system" has lots of roots growing in many directions. There is not one main root. A fibrous root system is usually wider than deep.


</doc>
<doc id="21713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21713" title="Demo">
Demo

Demo may mean one of the following:



</doc>
<doc id="21717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21717" title="Piero Gobetti">
Piero Gobetti

Piero Gobetti (born 1901 – died February 1926) was a young journalist, intellectual, and radical liberal person. He was a very active critic during the years of crisis in Italy after the First World War and during the early years of Fascist rule. He had to leave Italy and settled down in Paris, where he soon died. He died because his health was bad, after the Fascists had terrorized him.


</doc>
<doc id="21718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21718" title="Category:Entertainment companies">
Category:Entertainment companies


</doc>
<doc id="21720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21720" title="Manama">
Manama

Manama is the capital city of Bahrain. It is also the largest city in Bahrain, having almost 150.000 residents. 

Manama has been a city since at least the 1300s, when it was mentioned in Islamic books. It was owned by Portugal from 1521 to 1602, by Persia from 1602 to 1783, and by the Al-Khalifa family for a long time after that. In 1971, Manama became the capital city of Bahrain.

The city is divided into a few parts: 


</doc>
<doc id="21723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21723" title="Protist">
Protist

Protists are single-celled eukaryotes, which are a type of organism. Some autotrophic (which means they make their own food by photosynthesis), and others are heterotrophic (which means they eat organic material).
Most protists are very small. They are made up of one or a few cells at best – they are and therefore usually invisible to the naked eye. Some algae are protists, if they are single-celled. Many protists are part of the plankton and are very important for the ecosystem. The cells found in protists may be extremely complex, and are often little understood. It is now possible to do DNA sequencing, and a number of protists have been analysed. The results show that the Protista is not a monophyletic group. It is paraphyletic, and not a single clade. The taxonomy of the Protista is therefore rather confused. 

Some protists cause diseases. "Plasmodium falciparum" causes malaria; sleeping sickness is also caused by a protist.

An example of a single celled organism in the protist kingdom is the "Paramecium" or "slipper animalcule." The "Paramecium" moves using its small, hair-like fibers called cilia, and eats using the cilia to sweep the food into its food vacuole. Other protists can be amoebas, which move by extending pseudopods and flowing into them, or flowing around food particles and engulfing them.

Protists are not a monophyletic clade. The term is a convenient holdall for about 20 different kinds of single-celled eukaryotes. They differ in their cell organelles, specialised units which carry out well-defined functions, like mitochondria and plastids. This proves they have made the transition from prokaryotes in different ways. It is fairly clear now that all or most of these organelles have their origin in once-independent prokaryotes (bacteria or archaea), and that the eukaryote cell is a 'community of micro-organisms' working together in 'a marriage of convenience'. Admittedly, the Protista is a collection of disparate single-celled forms, but while a more sophisticated taxonomy is in flux (changing), Protista is still a useful term.


</doc>
<doc id="21726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21726" title="The Apple Dumpling Gang">
The Apple Dumpling Gang

The Apple Dumpling Gang is a Disney movie from 1975, in which three orphan children find gold during California's Gold Rush. Tim Conway and Don Knotts also star in it as two gangsters.

The movie is based on the book of the same name by Jack Bickham.


</doc>
<doc id="21730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21730" title="0s">
0s

The 0s is the first decade in the 1st century and 1st millennium. It unusually has only 9 years. Normally, a decade has 10 years, however, the year zero does not exist. The decade started at 1 AD and ended at 9 AD. Because the year zero does not exist, the first year of this decade was preceded by 1 BC.

Those people had significant influence on things in this decade.


</doc>
<doc id="21731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21731" title="1001">
1001

1001 (MI) was a common year starting on Wednesday, in accordance with the Julian calendar. It was the first year of the 2nd millennium and of the 11th century.


</doc>
<doc id="21732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21732" title="1009">
1009



</doc>
<doc id="21733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21733" title="1024">
1024



</doc>
<doc id="21734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21734" title="Quentin Tarantino">
Quentin Tarantino

Quentin Tarantino (born March 27, 1963) is an American filmmaker. He was born in Knoxville, Tennessee. Tarantino is an independent movie maker. He wrote, directed, and acted in Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs and Kill Bill, as well as others. Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs, and Kill Bill are all very violent, but are also funny. He won an Academy Award in 1994 (Best Original Screenplay) for Pulp Fiction.



</doc>
<doc id="21735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21735" title="Leander class frigate">
Leander class frigate

The Leander class frigate or Type 12M is a type of ship that was used by the Royal Navy.

The class became well known through the Warship BBC television drama series.



</doc>
<doc id="21736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21736" title="Spacecraft">
Spacecraft

A spacecraft is a vessel that can safely move people and cargo outside the Earth's atmosphere, through space to other planetary bodies, space stations, or orbits. Spacecraft which are launched from the surface of a planet are called launch vehicles and usually take-off from launch pads at spaceports. 

Most spacecraft today are propelled by rocket motors, which shoot hot gases and fire opposite to the direction of travel. Other forms of propulsion are used when appropriate. Spacecraft which do not need to escape from strong gravity may use ion thrusters or other more efficient methods. 

Because of the very large amount of energy needed to leave the Earth's gravity, spacecraft are usually very expensive to build, launch, and operate. Plans for future spacecraft often focus on reducing these costs so more people can participate in space. But today, costs are still very high, and until recently most spacecraft were sponsored by wealthy national governments. 

Most expensive of all is to send people in to space, due to their needs for food, water, air, living space, safety, and control. People participating in this way have special names: Americans call themselves astronauts; Russians call themselves cosmonauts; Chinese call themselves taikonauts.


Some of the most important spacecraft today are artificial satellites. Artificial satellites are smaller, unmanned spacecraft which are mostly sent to geostationary orbit to act as points to reflect radio signals from one part of Earth to another, or to watch events on Earth from a high point of view. Without such spacecraft, people on Earth would not be able to communicate as well with each other, accurately predict the weather, or confidently ensure the security of their countries.


</doc>
<doc id="21739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21739" title="Acoustics">
Acoustics

Acoustics is the study of sound.


</doc>
<doc id="21740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21740" title="Public finance">
Public finance

Public finance is the study of how the government raises funds and spends its money, and their economic effect.


</doc>
<doc id="21741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21741" title="Budget">
Budget

A budget is an account of the estimated revenue and estimated expenditure within a fiscal year.

There are three types of budgets:



</doc>
<doc id="21742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21742" title="Indirect tax">
Indirect tax

An indirect tax is a tax that is paid as part of a product. Many countries tax gasoline or cigarettes, but they do so indirectly. Because of the tax, the product will be more expensive. In turn, the shops will then pay the tax for the number of packets of cigarettes they sold, or for the amount of gasoline. This is opposed to a direct tax, which is directly paid by the consumer.


</doc>
<doc id="21745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21745" title="Erode">
Erode

Erode is a city in Tamil Nadu, India. It is the capital of the Erode district. About 500,000 people live in the city.
Erode District in Tamil Nadu State is very important market centre for Turmeric. Turmeric is received, not only from Erode district, but also from the other parts of Tamil Nadu and adjoining district like Mysore in Karnataka State. 

Erode is well known for marketing of textile products of Handloom, Powerloom and Readymade Garments. The Handloom and Powerloom products such as Cotton Sarees, Bed Spreads, Carpets, Lungies, Printed Fabrics, Towels, Dhotis are marketed here in bulk.

Kangeyam is famous for Bulls and Oil Mills. Kangeyam cows are not noted for their yield but their availability in large numbers has helped the district to make a mark in the field of dairy development


</doc>
<doc id="21753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21753" title="Sky Sports">
Sky Sports

Sky Sports is a group of 10 channels - Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports 4, Sky Sports News, Sky Sports HD 1, Sky Sports HD 2, Sky Sports HD 3, Sky Sports HD 4, Sky Sports News HD and At the Races. The channels are owned by a major company named British Sky Broadcasting. It is the most powerful sports television company in the United Kingdom. 

Sky Sports is known for its major football coverage and help launched the FA Premier League.

Sky Sports has a series of well known shows such as "Soccer AM", which is a morning chat show with jokes, "Gillette Soccer Saturday" and "You're on Sky Sports". 

On August 22, 1999 Sky Sports launched Sky Sports Active. The first game was Arsenal vs Manchester United. It gave the viewer to focus on one player, or look at different camera angles. It soon proved to be successful, and Sky decided to continue it. It can be accessed by pressing the Red Button on your Sky Digital Remote.

On November 24, 2002, Sky Sports won the rights to air the UEFA Champions League, with ITV. They had beaten channels such as the BBC and Channel 4 to win it. Part of the deal had stated that ITV would air two games on a Tuesday and Sky Sports would air 2 games on a Wednesday. Sky soon launched an 8-screen 'Champions League Interactive' channel which showed 8 live games.


</doc>
<doc id="21758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21758" title="Rhetoric">
Rhetoric

Rhetoric is the art of persuading people by speaking and (later) by writing. People can be trained in this skill. It is the art or the technique of persuasion, used by orators (public speakers). Its origin was in Ancient Greece of the 5th century BC. They made their decisions by speaking for or against proposals in a public place. Also, speeches were made when a person was accused of a serious crime before the magistrates.

The Romans, who were much influenced by the ancient Greeks, also used the same methods for decision-making. Cicero was one of their famous orators. In their case, the debates did not involve all citizens, just the Roman Senate or the courts.

Because rhetoric was so important to them, the Greeks and Romans wrote about how to be a good rhetorician. This is sometimes called 'secondary rhetoric'. It is a technique which can be taught, and used in writing. An early example is Plato, who wrote his works in the form of dialogues. Each question raised is discussed between two characters. One character is called Socrates (who was Plato's tutor when he was young), and the other was some other philosopher. This idea is well-known now, and has been copied many times.

In mediaeval universities rhetoric was taught as part of the curriculum. Rhetoric, dialectic and grammar form the trivium which, with the quadrivium, make up the seven liberal arts of Western culture. During Antiquity and the Middle Ages, rhetoric was used for persuasion in public and political arenas, and also in the courts of justice. Several hundred "rhetorical figures" were recognised by classical rhetoricians. Some of these are still in use, such as metaphor, simile and paradox.

The words 'rhetoric' or 'sophism' are often used with a negative meaning, of disinformation or propaganda. They are also used to describe a speech with doubtful or slanted arguments. Some very witty things have been said against orators and their rhetoric:

As the art of persuasion, the rhetoric continues to be important in present-day public life. This includes the following:

According to Aristotle, rhetoric has three methods of persuasion:


</doc>
<doc id="21759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21759" title="Skill">
Skill

A skill or technique is a learned ability to do something. 
It could be playing a musical instrument or playing a kind of sport or even doing something simple like using a corkscrew. Someone who is trying to do something but not succeeding may be using the wrong technique. Skill does not always have to be something physical: it may refer to the way a person approaches a problem.

Examples of skills are:


</doc>
<doc id="21763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21763" title="Hamas">
Hamas

Hamas (Arabic: حماس, acronym of Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiyya, Arabic: حركة المقاومة الاسلامية, literally "Islamic Resistance Movement") is a Palestinian Islamist Sunni organisation. It was started in 1987 during the First Intifada by Ahmed Yassin and Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi as the Gaza branch of the Muslim Brotherhood organziation in Egypt. In the 2006 Palestinian election, Hamas got 74 of 132 seats in parliament and controls the Gaza Strip. The group wants to build a Palestinian state based on Islamic ideas in the area that is now Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza Strip. Hamas does not recognize the State of Israel.

"Hamas" is an acronym of the Arabic phrase حركة المقاومة الاسلامية, or Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiyya or "Islamic Resistance Movement".

Hamas is known for its military wing, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, which plans and carries out attacks on Israel. Because of numerous suicide bombings and rocket attacks on Israel, the United States, European Union and other countries call it a terrorist organisation. The country of Jordan has made the group illegal. However, a lot of the international press, including the Israeli English-language daily newspaper, "Haaretz", call Hamas members by the more neutral term "militants."

In early 2006, Hamas won a clear victory in the vote for the Palestinian parliament. Voters saw Hamas as an alternative to exchange the long-ruling Fatah party, the main part of the PLO. Fatah had not improved the Palestinian people's conditions and reached statehood, and was thought to be corrupt.

Hamas has shown its organizational ability by building health, education, and social services to help the population in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, where there is much poverty. Such efforts have increased its support. In the first half of 2007, Hamas gained political control of the Gaza Strip, while Fatah keeps its headquarters in the West Bank.

Hamas is also associated in some way with Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine headed by Ahmed Jibril.


</doc>
<doc id="21765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21765" title="Suicide attack">
Suicide attack

A suicide attack is an attack where the attacker (either one person or a group of people) plans on killing people while also dying in the process. In a suicide attack, the attacker dies as a result of the attack, for example in an explosion or a crash.

Nowadays, suicide attacks are often done with a vehicle or an explosive material such as a bomb (a suicide bombing), or sometimes both (i.e. a car filled with explosives). If everything goes according to plan, the attacker is killed as soon as their attack is complete (when their vehicle crashes or their bomb detonates).

Suicide attacks are often done in a crowded place so that as many people as possible are killed. They are common in the Middle East. Most attacks on Israel, carried out by Hamas or other Palestinian terrorist groups are suicide bombings.


</doc>
<doc id="21768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21768" title="Laser">
Laser

A Laser is a machine that makes an amplified, single-colour source of light. This source of light acts like light from a tiny point (or from very far away). If you put special lenses in front of it, you can make laser light into a very narrow beam. A laser uses mirrors to turn the light into a single colour, and make the light act as if it is from a tiny point (or from very far away). It uses gases to make the light amplified, like in a flourescent light bulb. LASER is actually an acronym that stands for Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation.

A laser creates light by a very specific mechanism involving an optical gain medium. Basically the mechanism is to take advantage of the amount of time an optical gain medium will spend in an excited state. First, the medium is excited by a separate pumping source, raising the energy in the medium to the level of an excited state, for example as in Figure 1. However, the energy is not emitted all at once, but rather a fast transition, due to the excited state having a shorter lifetime, from an excited state to the metastable state occurs. Next, a slow transition, because the metastable state has a longer lifetime, from metastable state back down to the ground state is observed, which is the actual laser radiation. This amplification is due to the fast pace of putting the medium into the metastable state, which releases its energy at a slower rate than the faster process of putting the medium into the metastable state. Thus, there is spends most of its time in the metastable state ready to emit radiation. This process of maintaining an energy level is called saturation and creates a very intense continuous beam of light at a very narrow wavelength, which we would identify as a laser beam.

The flash light provides the pumping energy to the optical medium, in this case a crystal of ruby. As described above, the radiation saturates the medium in a higher energy level, which emits light when it returns to a lower energy level. This light now moves through the medium between the two mirrors that reflect the light back and forth between them. One of the mirrors, however, only partially reflects the light, allowing some to escape. The escaping light makes up the laser beam. 

This is a simple design; the type of medium used usually defines the type of laser, which is not always a crystal. Crystals used for lasers include ruby as well as a garnet crystal made of yttrium and aluminum with the rare earth metal mixed in. Gases can be used for laser by using helium, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, neon or others. Finally, the smallest lasers using semiconductor diodes to produce the light. 

Albert Einstein was the first to put forward the idea of stimulated emission that could produce a laser. From that point many years were spent confirming the presence of the phenomenon, but it was not until 1959 that the term laser was coined by Gordon Gould in a research paper. The first working laser was put together and operated by Theodore Maiman at the Hughes Research Laboratories in 1960, using a solid ruby laser such as the one in Figure 2. 

Lasers have found many uses in everyday life as well as in industry. Lasers are found in CD and DVD players, where they read the code from the disk that gets translated into a song or movie. A laser is also used to read the bar code on items being purchased, allowing quick identification of a product. Lasers are used in the medicine, particularly in LASIK eye surgery, where the laser is used to repair the shape of the cornea. A very important application of lasers is as a light source of spectroscopic studies in chemistry. A laser is even used to measure the distance of the Moon from Earth by reflecting off a large reflector left by the Apollo missions and measuring the time it takes for the light to travel to the Moon and back again.

1. Skoog, Douglas A., Holler, F. James, Crouch, Stanley R. "Principles of Instrumental Analysis." Toronto, ON. Thomson Brooks/Cole, 2007.

2. Gribbin. J, "In Search of Schroedinger's Cat" New York, Bantam, 1984


</doc>
<doc id="21771" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21771" title="NBC">
NBC

NBC, whose letters once stood for The National Broadcasting Company, is an American television network that started in 1926 as a radio station. (Its first television progams aired in 1944.) It is owned by movie studio Universal and appliance company General Electric. General Electric is currently in a deal to sell 51% of the company to Comcast.

It is called "the Peacock Network" because of the title animal in its logo.

The network is also famous for its three-note chimes, and the "Must See TV" phrase.




</doc>
<doc id="21772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21772" title="Thiruvananthapuram">
Thiruvananthapuram

Thiruvananthapuram () is the capital city of the Indian state of Kerala. The city used to be known by the name of Trivandrum. It is on the west coast of India near the far south of the mainland. 
With 889,191 people as of 2001, it is the biggest city in Kerala in terms of size and number of people.

The city is the state capital and houses many national and state government offices, organizations and companies. It is also a major center of learning and is home to several schools and colleges including Kerala University, and to many scientific institutions, the most prominent being the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), Sree Chitra Tirunal Instiute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Technopark, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) and Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST).

Thiruvananthapuram literally means ""City of Lord Anantha"" in Malayalam. The name derives from the god of the Hindu temple at the centre of the city. Anantha is the serpent Shesha on whom Padmanabhan or Vishnu lies. The temple of Vishnu lying on Anantha, the Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple is the most recognizable landmark of the city. The city was officially known as "Trivandrum" in English until 1991, when the government decided to change the city's name back to the original name, Thiruvananthapuram, in all languages. However, the city is still widely referred to as "Trivandrum".
The city is fully electrified by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). The district is divided in to three circles: Transmission circle, Thiruvananthapuram city and Kattakkada. Domestic users account for 43% of the total power usage, or 90 million units per month. Thiruvananthapuram district has one 220 kV, nine 110 kV and six 66 kV electrical substations. A 400 kV substation has just been commissioned by the Power Grid Corporation and will ensure high-quality power supply to the city. 

The water supply schemes cover 100% within the city limits. It is 84% of the urban and 69% of the rural population, when the district is considered. Peppara and Aruvikkara dams are the main sources of water for distribution in the capital city. The new project plan for improving the water supply with Japan aid covers Thiruvananthapuram city and six suburban panchayats having urban characteristics. 

The sewerage system in the city was implemented at the time of the Travancore Kingdom, and modernised in 1938. This scheme for the disposal of sullage and sewage is an underground system. The whole system is controlled by Kerala Water Authority now. The city area is divided in to seven blocks for the execution of the sewerage system, two commissioned in the 1990s and two after 2000. The sewerage is pumped to a stilling chamber at the Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) at Valiyathura, and is disposed through sewage farming. Diary Development Department maintains this sewage farm and fodder cultivation is done here. There is no revenue generation from this scheme, and the sewerage system in the city is a service provided to the residents.

Apart from being the capital of India’s most literate and socially developed state, Thiruvananthapuram is a strategically important city in Southern India. Being the largest city in India’s deep south, it is important for both military logistics and civil aviation in the southern part of the country. It is the headquarters of the "Southern Air Command(SAC)" of the Indian Air Force. The city is very close to the international shipping route and East-West shipping axis. Also, it falls under the international air route. 
Due to the strategic importance of the city, the Indian Air Force authorities have planned to make an aerospace command in SAC. 
The plan for setting up a new "Tri-Service Command", which will integrate all the three forces under a single command, is also in the pipeline.

Being the Indian city with the closest air link to the small island-country of Maldives and also Sri Lanka, the city’s medical and health infrastructure caters to patients from both countries, especially Maldives. Exports of perishables and medicines from Trivandrum International Airport run to full capacity on everyday flights to Maldives and Sri Lanka because of this nearness. Thiruvananthapuram also provides a key link in movement of goods and passengers to and from southern Tamilnadu into Kerala, the state border being just 30 km away. The city is also important for people from around the world seeking help through Ayurveda medicine and therapy. Ayurveda resorts are coming up at a rapid pace along the International Beach of Kovalam and Varkala coast.



</doc>
<doc id="21776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21776" title="Animal Farm">
Animal Farm

Animal Farm is a short political fable by George Orwell based on Joseph Stalin's betrayal of the Russian Revolution. Orwell wrote it because he wished to destroy what he called the "Soviet myth". Like "Nineteen Eighty-Four", the story is one of the most famous political allegories in the world. It is about a group of animals who rebel against the humans from the farm they live on and run it themselves with hopes of being equal, free, and happy. In the end, however, the new rule becomes a cruel tyranny of its own led by the pigs. Written during World War II and published in 1945, it was not well received at first, but is widely accepted as a classic today.

The animals of the Manor Farm live in cruel condition of exploitation under the sway of Mr. Jones, a bad and always drunken man. One day the Old Major, an old pig, convened a meeting of all the animals and told them about a dream that he had the previous night. He had dreamed about an old song that incited to rebellion against the human beings. Everyone was very excited and about three months later they revolted against Mr. Jones and they took possession of the farm. The rebellion was led by the pigs that were the most intelligent animals of the farm. The purpose of the revolution was to create a fair society made only by animals based on seven commandments that could be summed up with the maxim: “Four legs good, two legs bad”. In a short time among the pigs there was tension because Snowball, an inventive and vivacious pig, wanted to build a windmill but Napoleon, a big and fierce-looking pig, was skeptical. So the animals formed two parties. In the meantime Mr. Jones wanted to regain the farm but the animals succeeded in the battle and Mr. Jones was forced to run away. One day Napoleon arrived in the farm with nine big and ferocious dogs that incited against Snowball that ran away bleeding. From that day Napoleon was the real dictator of the farm, if someone was not agreed with him, he was eaten up by his dogs and if something did not work, like the building of the windmill, it was all Snowball’s fault. Napoleon had pity on nobody, when Boxer, the strongest horse in the farm, lost his power because of the old age, he unexpectedly led him to slaughter. Now Napoleon and the pigs were like Mr. Jones, they exploited the other animals, they took advantage of the foolishness of some animals and they came into contact with human beings for business although they established it was forbidden. In the end they became like human beings, they started to walk on their hind legs and they changed the old maxim with a new one: “Four legs good, two legs better”. Nothing was changed and the rebellion had been useless.

Orwell, who was a socialist, wrote in the introduction of the 1947 Ukranian translation of "Animal Farm" that he got the idea from seeing a young boy whipping a large cart horse. He explained, "It struck me that if only such animals became aware of (knew) their strength we should have no power over them, and that men exploit (badly use) animals in much the same way as the rich exploit the proletariat (poor)".

There are many characters in the book who are based on real people. They are grouped into pigs, horses, humans and other animals. 





Animalism is a system of beliefs shared by the farm animals of Manor Farm. The purpose is to ensure the farm animals behave like actual animals and not follow the footsteps of humans beings. Therefore, any human behavior is considered contrary to the spirit of Animalism.

In the story, this song was sung by animals of England once upon a time.
It is named "Beasts of England", with a stirring tune, a cross between Clementine and Cucuracha. This song became popular among the animals of England after Old Major recited it to the farm animals of Manor Farm. It serves as the 1st national anthem of Animal Farm.

These are the original commandments laid down by the pigs.

""Four legs good, two legs bad.""



</doc>
<doc id="21779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21779" title="Category:Cities in Libya">
Category:Cities in Libya

Cities in Libya


</doc>
<doc id="21780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21780" title="Category:Libya">
Category:Libya

Libya


</doc>
<doc id="21786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21786" title="Miso">
Miso

Miso is a thick paste. It is similar to the Korean "doenjang". It is made by fermenting soy beans with sea salt and "kōji". Kōji is the product of fermenting rice, barley, or soybeans with a mold culture, "kōji-kin" ("Aspergillus oryzae"). Often, grains such as barley or rice, and sometimes other ingredients, are added. Miso is high in protein and rich in vitamins and minerals. Miso tastes salty and, depending on the grains used and fermentation time, may also be sweet. Miso is used to make miso soup.

Miso is a very important part of Japanese food. However, some Japanese people are eating less miso because they are trying to be healthy by eating less salt. There are different kinds of miso. "Kome miso" is made from rice and beans. "Mame miso" is made from beans. "Mugi miso" is made from barley and beans. Tyougo miso is a mix of these misos.

Miso first came to Japan from China or the Korean peninsula. Ancient Chinese "jan"(醤) is the origin of miso. "Jan" is an ancient fermented seasoning. According to classical scholars, "jan" was called "hishio" or "kuki" in the Edo era. In China, "jan" was written about in the "Shurai", an ancient Chinese. 

Miso existed in the Jomon era in Japan. "Jan" is the Japanese original seasoning. In the Nara era, "jan" was found in Nishi city, Heiankyo. Miso was used for seasoning porridge made of rice and vegetables. In the sengoku period, Miso was important to preserved food. 

Many Japanese used to make miso in their own homes. This was called "Temae-miso". In the Muromachi era, it was used as a food preservative and as a seasoning. Miso was an important source of nutrient for solders. In the Edo era, industrial mass production method of miso was began. "Temae-miso" became less common.


</doc>
<doc id="21787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21787" title="Miso soup">
Miso soup

Miso soup (味噌汁"misoshiru" in Japanese) is a traditional Japanese soup. It is made from a stock called "dashi" into which softened miso is dissolved. Various solid ingredients like wakame, seaweed, tofu from soybeans, and mushrooms are then added to make the finished soup. The soup is usually served in lacquer bowls with lids and drunk directly from the bowl. Solid ingredients are eaten with chopsticks. Different types of miso produce distinctive soups.



</doc>
<doc id="21789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21789" title="Wakame">
Wakame

Wakame (Japanese: わかめ or 若布) is a type of edible kelp. Its scientific name is "Undaria pinnatifida".

It is distributed either dried or salted. It is often used in miso soup and salads. In Korea it is called miyeok. It is used in salads, or as the main ingredient in miyeok soup. In China it is called qundaicai. Chinese production is concentrated around Dalian.

In New Zealand "Undaria pinnatifida" is a very serious weed, and is one of the 100 worst invasive species in the world. It was first discovered in Wellington Harbour in 1987. It probably arrived accidentally in the late 1980s, via shipping from Asia, in ballast water. Native to cold temperate coastal areas of Japan, Korea and China, in recent decades it has also established in France, Britain, Spain, Italy, Argentina and Australia.

"Undaria" is now found around much of south-eastern New Zealand, and as far north as Auckland. It spreads in two ways. Naturally, through the millions of microscopic spores released by each fertile plant; and attached to vessel hulls and marine farming equipment.

"Undaria" is a highly successful and fertile species, which makes it a serious invader. However, its impacts are not well understood and are likely to vary, depending on the location.



</doc>
<doc id="21791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21791" title="Kelp">
Kelp

Kelp is a type of marine seaweed. It is a brown alga. There are many different kinds of kelp. Kelp grow in large forests, usually near the surface of the water. Some kelps grow very fast (up to 30 cm a day). Kelp can reach a length of up to 60 m. The blades are kept afloat by gas-filled bladders.

Kelp plays an important role as food and habitat for fish and other forms. It may be eaten as a vegetable.


</doc>
<doc id="21794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21794" title="Tofu">
Tofu

Tofu, sometimes also called doufu (usually used in Chinese recipes) or bean curd (literal translation), is a food made by coagulating soy milk, and then pressing the resulting curds into blocks. The making of tofu from soy milk is similar to the technique of making cheese from milk. Wheat gluten, or seitan, in its steamed and fried forms, is often mistakenly called "tofu" in Asian or vegetarian dishes.

In Japan, tofu is a common food, used in miso soup or as a hot dish.

China has more kinds of tofu than Japan and various tofu foods.

In America, tofu is becoming more popular, since Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke on the effect of tofu on the TV. Today, Americans buy tofu at the grocery store. The word “tofu” takes root in common use.

In Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Myanmar and Indonesia, tofu is daily food.

Tofu is rich in textured vegetable protein. Calorie is relatively low. Dietary fiber is a little for process. More and more American and European use it as health food.

・ Cold tofu

・ Boiled tofu

・ Sukiyaki

・ Hot dish

・ Oden


</doc>
<doc id="21795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21795" title="Soy milk">
Soy milk

Soy milk (also called soymilk, soya milk, soybean milk, soy bean milk, soy drink, or soy beverage) is a milk-like product made from soybeans.

Soy milk originated in Eastern Asia, China, a region where the soybean was native. It was used as food long before the existence of written records. Later on, the soybean and soybean foods were moved to Japan. 


</doc>
<doc id="21800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21800" title="Dashi">
Dashi

Dashi is a simple soup stock used in Japanese cooking. The most common form of dashi is a simple broth or stock made by heating kombu (edible kelp) and katsuobushi (flakes of dried skipjack tuna) in water and then straining the resultant liquid. Dashi is the base for miso soup, Japanese noodle broth, and many Japanese simmering liquids. Fresh dashi made from kelp and katsuobushi is rare today, even in Japan. Most people use granulated or liquid instant substitutes.

Other kinds of dashi stock are made by soaking kelp, shiitake, or niboshi in water for many hours or heating them in water nearly to boiling and then straining the resultant broth. Kelp stock or "konbu dashi" is made by soaking kelp, or "sea tangle", in water. "Shiitake dashi" stock is made by soaking dried shiitake mushrooms in water. "Niboshi dashi" stock is made by soaking small dried sardines (after pinching off their heads and entrails) in water.

Other important Japanese flavors include shoyu, mirin, rice vinegar, miso, and sake.


</doc>
<doc id="21803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21803" title="Shiitake mushroom">
Shiitake mushroom

The shiitake mushroom ("Lentinus edodes" or "Lentinula edodes"), also known as Chinese black mushroom or black forest mushroom, is an edible mushroom typically grown on the shii tree. Two Chinese variant names for high grades of shiitake are "dōnggū" ("winter mushroom") and "huāgū" ("flower mushroom," which has a flower-like cracking pattern on the mushroom's upper surface); both are produced at colder temperatures.


</doc>
<doc id="21811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21811" title="Soy sauce">
Soy sauce

Soy sauce (US) or soya sauce is a fermented sauce made from soy beans (soya beans), roasted grain, water and salt. It is commonly used in Asian cuisine and appears in some Western cuisine dishes, especially as an ingredient in Worcestershire sauce. Real soy sauces are fermented with "kōji" (麹, the mold "Aspergillus oryzae" or "A. sojae") and other related microorganisms. 
Almost all soy sauce has some alcohol added during bottling. This acts as a preservative to protect it from going bad. For this reason, soy sauce should always be kept in the fridge. It should also not be put in direct light. An opened bottle of soy sauce that has been left unrefrigerated could become slightly bitter.

Although there are many types of soy sauce, all are salty and earthy-tasting brownish liquids used to season food while cooking or at the table. What some westerners can only describe as a flavorful, kind of sweet taste is a distinct basic taste called "umami" by the Japanese and "xian-wei" (鲜味, "lit." fresh taste) by the Chinese.

Although this seasoning was first used in China, it is used several cuisines across Asia and is a particularly important flavoring in Japanese cuisine. However, Chinese and Japanese soy sauces are different, and it is not really possible to use one instead of another.


</doc>
<doc id="21815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21815" title="Bowl">
Bowl

A bowl is a container for food. It can hold liquids, such as soups and solids, like popcorn. People also prepare salads in it. A bowl is like a ball cut in half. Bowls are usually made from glass, ceramic, wood or plastic. 


</doc>
<doc id="21816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21816" title="Oktoberfest">
Oktoberfest

The Oktoberfest (also called Wiesn) is a German festival that takes place on the Theresienwiese, a public place in the center of Munich. It is every year, from the end of September to the beginning of October. It is a big social event. There is lots of eating and drinking.
It is on for sixteen days ending on the first Sunday in October. If this is the first or the second the festival is extended to the end on 3 October, the Day of German Unity. This is the day when East Germany and West Germany joined into one country again in 1990

The first Oktoberfest was on 12 October 1810. The feast was for the wedding of King Ludwig I of Bavaria and Therese of Sachsen-Hildeburghausen. The feast lasted for 5 days. There was music, and you could eat and drink. At the end of it there was a big horse-race. The next years they organized this horse-race and the feast again, because the people had liked it so much.

Today the Oktoberfest is the world's largest fair, and it has become very famous and popular. About six million people visit it every year. Many people and tourists from all over the world come to Munich for Oktoberfest. Other cities all over the world have even copied the Oktoberfest, and now they also hold feasts that are similar to the Oktoberfest.

One of the famous attractions is a big dipper called the "Wilde Maus" which means "Wild mouse" in English.

There are 14 main tents at the Oktoberfest.
<br style=clear:both>


</doc>
<doc id="21818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21818" title="Tomb Raider">
Tomb Raider

Tomb Raider is a computer and video game series. Originally the games were made by Core Design. Now they are being made by Crystal Dynamics. The first game was sold in 1996 for PC, PlayStation and Sega Saturn.

The main character of the game is a woman called "Lara Croft". She is an archeologist and explores ancient places, searching old relics, often fighting a great danger to the world.

Since 2001, Paramount Pictures has made two films like the game, starring Angelina Jolie.

The first six games in the series was made by Core Design. In 2003, parent company Eidos moved development of the "Tomb Raider" games from Core Design to Crystal Dynamics, another Eidos-owned studio, after the sixth game, "Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness", was met with dislike from critics.





</doc>
<doc id="21819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21819" title="MediaWiki:Talkpagetext">
MediaWiki:Talkpagetext


</doc>
<doc id="21820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21820" title="Hot dog">
Hot dog

A hot dog is made of the remains of the pig after other parts are cut off and sold as bacon, sausage patties, and ham. However many people across the world eat hot dogs and enjoy them very much. Hot dogs can be boiled, grilled, or fried. The word frankfurter comes from Frankfurt, Germany. This is where pork sausages that were like hot dogs first came from. This sausage is usually served in a bun or another type of bread. The most common type of hot dogs are made from beef, sometimes mixed with pork. Chicken and vegetarian hot dogs are popular as well. Animal parts are used in most hot dogs, and may include skin, lips, pig snouts, organs, fat, and other parts of animal bodies. Hot dogs and other sausage products were first developed as a way to sell these parts that people would not normally eat. Nearly 20% of the weight of a hot dog is usually non-meat ingredients including water, sugar, and spices. Some legal categories of hot dogs, such as "frankfurters" can contain up to 3.5% of non-meat fillers as well, such as corn meal.

To add to the taste, various toppings and sauces are often added. The most common sauces in the United States are ketchup, mustard and pickle relish. Onions, chopped pickles, peppers, hot sauce and cheese are also sometimes added to the food. Onions cooked in tomato sauce and Sauerkraut are popular toppings, as is chili. 
In the United States, there are many different types of hot dogs, with different combinations of chili, cheese, onions, mustard, and other products. One of the most popular types of hot dogs is a chili dog. There are many different types of chili dogs. One of the most well-known is a Coney Island dog, a dog topped with a blend of chili, cheese, mustard and onions that is originally from Michigan.

A type of hot dog called a "kosher hot dog" is very common in parts of the United States and overseas. It is similar to most hot dogs except that it is always made of beef, has more salt and spice added to it, and is made with help from a Rabbi. Halal hot dogs are also made.

Though hot dogs are most popular in the United States, they are served in many places around the world. People in Japan eat a lot of hot dogs, and the world's largest hot dog ever was made there. In some countries, "hot dog" is the name of a completely different sausage dish; for example, in New Zealand it is used to mean corn dog, and hot dogs are called "American hot dogs" instead.


</doc>
<doc id="21825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21825" title="Constipation">
Constipation

Constipation is when it is very hard to get rid of digested food waste (feces). Constipation can be caused by many things. One is eating or drinking too much dairy products that use cow milk. To solve this problem many people use a laxative. Another possible cause could be an obstruction somewhere along the digestive tract (the path that food travels inside the body).

When a person is constipated their lower stomach and intestinal area will be blocked. People can usually conquer constipation by eating natural laxatives such a fruits, fruit juice and dietary supplements. Liquid will help get rid of constipation. Constipation can occur by eating hard food.


</doc>
<doc id="21828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21828" title="Category:1001">
Category:1001


</doc>
<doc id="21829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21829" title="Category:1009">
Category:1009


</doc>
<doc id="21830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21830" title="Category:1024">
Category:1024


</doc>
<doc id="21831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21831" title="Category:1241">
Category:1241


</doc>
<doc id="21832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21832" title="Category:1436">
Category:1436


</doc>
<doc id="21833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21833" title="Category:1504">
Category:1504


</doc>
<doc id="21834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21834" title="Category:1578">
Category:1578


</doc>
<doc id="21835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21835" title="Category:1593">
Category:1593


</doc>
<doc id="21836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21836" title="Category:1620">
Category:1620


</doc>
<doc id="21837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21837" title="Category:1721">
Category:1721


</doc>
<doc id="21838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21838" title="Category:1726">
Category:1726


</doc>
<doc id="21839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21839" title="Category:1728">
Category:1728


</doc>
<doc id="21840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21840" title="Category:1730">
Category:1730


</doc>
<doc id="21841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21841" title="Category:1734">
Category:1734


</doc>
<doc id="21842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21842" title="Category:1738">
Category:1738


</doc>
<doc id="21843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21843" title="Category:1738 births">
Category:1738 births


</doc>
<doc id="21844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21844" title="Category:1746">
Category:1746


</doc>
<doc id="21845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21845" title="Category:1747">
Category:1747


</doc>
<doc id="21846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21846" title="Category:1778 births">
Category:1778 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1778.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="21847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21847" title="Category:1829 deaths">
Category:1829 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="21848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21848" title="Category:1806 births">
Category:1806 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1806.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="21849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21849" title="Category:1807 births">
Category:1807 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1807.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="21850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21850" title="Category:1910 books">
Category:1910 books


</doc>
<doc id="21851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21851" title="Category:1925 books">
Category:1925 books


</doc>
<doc id="21852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21852" title="Category:1925 movies">
Category:1925 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21853" title="Category:1927 movies">
Category:1927 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21854" title="Category:193">
Category:193


</doc>
<doc id="21855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21855" title="Category:1929 movies">
Category:1929 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21856" title="Category:190s">
Category:190s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 190s which begins in the year 190 and ends in the year 199.


</doc>
<doc id="21857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21857" title="Category:192">
Category:192


</doc>
<doc id="21858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21858" title="Category:1934 deaths">
Category:1934 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="21859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21859" title="Category:1939 deaths">
Category:1939 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="21861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21861" title="Category:1939 movies">
Category:1939 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21862" title="Category:1940 movies">
Category:1940 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21863" title="Category:1941 movies">
Category:1941 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21864" title="Category:1943 movies">
Category:1943 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21865" title="Category:1950 movies">
Category:1950 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21866" title="Category:1951 movies">
Category:1951 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21867" title="Category:1952 books">
Category:1952 books


</doc>
<doc id="21868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21868" title="Category:1952 movies">
Category:1952 movies


</doc>
<doc id="21869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21869" title="Kernel (computer science)">
Kernel (computer science)

A kernel is the central part of an operating system. It manages the tasks of the computer and the hardware - most notably memory and CPU time.

There are two types of kernels:

The kernel is the most fundamental part of an operating system. It can be thought of as the program which controls all other programs on the computer. It is responsible for the creation and destruction of memory space which allows software to run. It provides services so that programs can request the use of the network driver, the disk or any other piece of hardware (the kernel forwards that request to special programs called drivers which control the hardware), manages the file system and sets interrupts for the CPU to enable multitasking. Many kernels are also responsible for ensuring that faulty programs do not interfere with the operation of others, by denying access to memory that has not been allocated to them and restricting the amount of CPU time they can consume.

All of the operating systems commonly used use Monolithic kernels. In Linux for example, drivers are often implemented as part of kernel (specifically Loadable Kernel Modules). When a device is needed, its extension is loaded and 'joined' onto the kernel - in other words making the kernel larger. Monolithic kernels are problematic in that if one of these device drivers is faulty (such as if a beta graphics driver is downloaded) then because it is part of the kernel it often overrides the mechanisms put in place to deal with faulty programs (see above). This can mean that the kernel - and thus the entire computer - can cease to function. If there are too many devices, the kernel can also run out of memory - causing a system crash or making the computer very slow.

Microkernels are a way of solving this problem. In a microkernel operating system, the kernel deals only with critical activities - such as controlling the memory and CPU - and nothing else. Drivers and other functions that monolithic kernels would normally do within the kernel are moved outside the kernel, where they are under control. Instead of being an uncontrollable part of the kernel the beta driver is therefore no more unlikely to cause a crash as a beta web browser - that is that if a driver goes wrong it can simply be restarted by the kernel. Unfortunately creating microkernel based operating systems is very difficult and there are no operating systems like these that are commonly used. Minix is a microkernel operating system.


</doc>
<doc id="21870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21870" title="Ulm">
Ulm

Ulm is a city in Germany, in the state of Baden-Württemberg.

It is situated at the river Danube. On one side of the river the city is called Ulm. On the other side it is called Neu-Ulm. Together it has more than 170.000 inhabitants. Ulm alone has about 120,000 inhabitants.

Ulm has a university. The university has about 7000 students.

The world's highest church tower is the Ulmer Münster (161,5m) in Ulm. Also, Ulm has the oldest city theatre in Germany. Albert Einstein was born in Ulm.


</doc>
<doc id="21873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21873" title="Landlocked">
Landlocked

People say a country is landlocked if it does not have access to any oceans or seas.
As an example, Austria is landlocked. France is not landlocked because it has access to the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Ocean. A sea is also landlocked if does not have access to an ocean. As an example, the Caspian Sea is landlocked. The Gulf of Mexico is not landlocked because it has access to the Atlantic Ocean.


</doc>
<doc id="21874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21874" title="Kyrgyzstan">
Kyrgyzstan

Kyrgyzstan (Kyrgyz: Кыргызстан), formally the Kyrgyz Republic, and sometimes known as Kirghizia, is a country in Central Asia. The country is landlocked (has no coast) and mountainous. It has borders with China, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. Its capital is Bishkek. It was a Socialist Republic of the Soviet Union, but became independent in 1991. The country was peaceful in the 1990s. Its president, Askar Akayev showed an autocratic and authoritarian character. 

In 2005, there was an unexpected revolution after the elections of parliament (the legislature) in March. President Akayev resigned on April 4 of that year. Opposition leaders formed a coalition (a group from more than one party), and a new government was formed, led by President Kurmanbek Bakiyev and Prime Minister Feliks Kulov.

At the moment, different political groups are fighting for power in the republic. Three of the 75 elected members of Parliament have been murdered.


</doc>
<doc id="21875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21875" title="Kebab">
Kebab

Kebab (kebap in Turkish, kabab in Iran, India and Pakistan, also spelled kebob, kabob; Urdu: کباب ) means "grilled (or broiled) meat" in Persian and Turkish. Kebab is usually made of lamb and beef. Sometimes chicken and fish are used for some styles. Pork is never used by Muslims but is sometimes used by non-Muslim sellers. Muslims are not allowed to eat pork, for religious reasons. 

There are many varieties of kebab and the term means different things in different countries. The generic term kebab usually refers to doner kebab or "döner kebap" in Europe and to shish kebab in the United States, though its meaning can vary. 

Perhaps the earliest recipe is in the tenth-century Kitab al-Tabeekh كتاب الطبيخ (book of cookery) by Ibn Sayyar al-Warraq of Baghdad. His recipe for "Kebab Khalis" uses thin slices of lean meat, salted and grilled in an ungreased frying pan.


</doc>
<doc id="21880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21880" title="Halal">
Halal

Halaal (حلال, halāl, halal) is an Islamic Arabic term meaning "permissible". 
It has both a general and specific meaning. 

When people use the word in Islamic countries, they usually mean to say "what is allowed by Islamic Law".

In non-Islamic countries, the word usually means "fit to be eaten by a Muslim". 

Muslims have strict rules of what they can and cannot eat:


When Jewish people say something is "Kashrut" (or Kosher), they mean a similar thing except Jewish people are allowed to have alcohol which is made from grapes (made in a certain way).


</doc>
<doc id="21883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21883" title="Surat">
Surat

Surat is a city in Gujarat, India.


</doc>
<doc id="21884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21884" title="Kanpur">
Kanpur

Kanpur is a city in Uttar Pradesh, India. Almost three million people live in Kanpur.


</doc>
<doc id="21892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21892" title="Template:Dablink">
Template:Dablink


</doc>
<doc id="21900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21900" title="Web portal">
Web portal

An internet portal or web portal is a website used to enter the Internet. It can also be used to describe a website to enter certain parts of the Internet, like Wikipedia's .

Many ISPs have their own portals, but there are many other portals by other companies, like Microsoft's MSN, Ask.com, and Yahoo!.


</doc>
<doc id="21906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21906" title="Humanism">
Humanism

Humanism is a philosophy or "way of thinking about the world". Humanism is set of ethics or ideas about how people should live and act. People who hold this set of ethics are called "Humanists". 





Humanist ideas were first discussed in Ancient Greece. Among the important Humanist philosophers were Plato and Aristotle. 

The writings of the ancient Greeks were studied in the 1400s during the Renaissance. There were many Humanist thinkers at this time. There was an important Humanist academy set up in Florence by Lorenzo Medici. Some of the philosophers, writers and poets who were at the academy were Marsilio Ficino, Pico della Mirandola, Cristoforo Landino and Angolo Poliziano. 

Humanist ethics affected people's thinking in many ways. Many philosophers began to discuss the church, government, education and human rights in different ways. Because of this, the period of European history from 1600 until 1800 is called "The Age of Reason". Some of the important philosophers were Desiderius Erasmus, Francis Bacon, René Descartes, Blaise Pascal, Isaac Newton, Galileo Galilei, John Milton. 



</doc>
<doc id="21910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21910" title="The Guardian">
The Guardian

The Guardian is a British newspaper. It is published every day, except on Sunday. The Sunday edition is known as The Observer.

The newspaper was founded in 1821. It was founded by textile traders and merchants. The Guardian was seen as ‘an organ of the middle class’ , or in the words of C.P. Scott’s son Ted ‘a paper that will remain bourgeois to the last . "I write for the "Guardian"," said Sir Max Hastings in 2005, "because it is read by the new establishment", reflecting the paper's growing influence. 

Three of the four people who wrote leaders for the "Guardian", joined the Social Democratic Party on its foundation in 1982. The paper supported Tony Blair when he wanted to lead the Labour Party, ("Guardian" leader, 2 July 1994) and to become Prime Minister ("Guardian" leader, 2 May 1997).
The Observer is the Sunday edition of The Guardian, mostly the same except with a different name.

Those who read it have a centre-left political orientation. 
The Guardian is considered British centre-left (described by American conservatives as "left-wing" as US politics are generally farther to the right of the UK).


</doc>
<doc id="21914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21914" title="Algae">
Algae

Algae (one Alga, several Algae) is the name for certain plant-like living things that can make food from sunlight (photosynthesis). The study of algae is called phycology or algology.

Algae are a large and diverse group of simple, typically autotrophic organisms, ranging from unicellular to multicellular forms. The largest and most complex marine forms are called seaweeds. They are , like plants, and "simple" because they lack the many distinct organs found in land plants. For that reason they are "not" classified as plants.

Though the prokaryotic "Cyanobacteria" (formerly referred to as "blue-green algae") were included as "Algae" in older textbooks, this is outdated. The term "Algae" is now used for eukaryotic organisms. All true algae therefore have a nucleus enclosed within a membrane and chloroplasts bound in one or more membranes. However, algae are definitely "not" a monophyletic group, as they do not all descend from a common algal ancestor. Modern taxonomists propose splitting them up into monophyletic groups, but there is at present no consensus as to the details.

Algae lack the various structures that characterize land plants, such as leaves, roots, and other organs that are found in plants. Nearly all algae have photosynthetic machinery ultimately derived from the cyanobacteria, and so produce oxygen as a by-product of photosynthesis, unlike other photosynthetic bacteria such as "purple" and "green" bacteria. Some unicellular species rely entirely on external energy sources and have limited or no photosynthetic apparatus.

Fossilized filamentous algae from the Vindhya basin have been dated back to 1.6 to 1.7 billion years ago.

Algae are usually found in damp places or water, and are common on land as well as water. However, terrestrial algae are usually rather inconspicuous and are far more common in moist, tropical regions than dry ones. Algae lack vascular tissues and other adaptations to live on land, but they can endure dryness and other conditions in symbiosis with a fungus as lichen.

The various sorts of algae play significant roles in aquatic ecology. Microscopic forms that live suspended in the water column are called phytoplankton. They provide the food base for most marine food chains. Kelp grows mostly in shallow marine waters. Some are used as human food or harvested for agar or fertilizer. Kelp can grow in large stands called kelp forests. These forests prevent some of the damage from waves. Many different species live in them, including sea urchins, sea otters, and abalone. 

Some algae may harm other species. Some algae may reproduce a lot, and make an algal bloom. These algae may produce protective toxins which can kill fish in the water. Dinoflagellates secrete a compound that turns the flesh of fish into slime. The algae then consume this nutritious liquid.

Algae have evolved a number of symbiotic partnerships with other organisms. The most famous is the plant-like lichen, which are each formed by a fungus with an alga. It is a highly successful life-form, and twenty thousand 'species' are known. In all cases the lichen are quite different in appearance and life-style from either constituent; it is possibly the most complete symbiosis known. Both constituents gain from their access to niches with low nutrient value, which is where lichen are found.

Less well known are the algal relationships with animals. Reef-building corals are basically social Cnidarian polyps. Corals are dependent on light, because the algae are important partners, and they require light. Corals have evolved structures, often tree-like, which offer the algae maximum access to light. The coral weakens the algal cell walls, and digests about 80% of the food synthesised by the algae. The corals' waste-products provide nutrients for the algae so, as with lichen, both partners gain from the association. The algae are golden-brown flagellate algae, often of the genus "Symbiodinium". A curious feature of the partnership is that the coral may eject the algae in hard times, and regain them later. The ejection of the algal partner is called "bleaching", because the coral loses its colour.

Other types of Cnideria, such as sea anemones and jellyfish, also contain algae. Jellyfish with algae behave so that their partners get the best light during the day, and descend to depths at night, where the water is rich in nitrates and brown with decay. Sea slugs and clams are also well-known for harbouring algae. Both groups are molluscs. The sea slugs graze on coral, and are the same colour as the coral they graze. They are able to separate the algae from the polyp tissues they digest. The algal cells are moved to its tentacles, where they continue to live. The otherwise defenceless slug gains both camouflage and nutrition. The giant clam keeps algae in its mantle, which is revealed when the clam is open. The coloured mantle has places where the skin is transparent, and acts like a lens to concentrate light on the algae beneath. When the algae get too numerous, the clam digests them.

Various other marine invertebrate groups have members which symbiont with algae. Flatworms (Platyhelminths) and Polychaete worms (Annelids) are two such groups.


</doc>
<doc id="21916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21916" title="Kelp forest">
Kelp forest

Kelp forests are a type of marine ecosystem that is present around colonies of kelp; they contain rich biodiversity. Kelp can stretch 2-30 meters or more (up to 60 m in "Macrocystis pyrifera") from their anchors on the sea floor to the surface. It provides a vertical infrastructure that is home to many fish and invertebrate species. Kelp forests also often attract mammalian visitors, including whales, sea lions, sea otters, and SCUBA-diving humans.

Kelp forests draw their name from an analogy to forests on land.


</doc>
<doc id="21917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21917" title="Symbiosis">
Symbiosis

Symbiosis (pl. symbioses) means living together. It describes close and long-term relationships between different species. The term was coined by Anton de Bary in 1879, after the nature of lichen was discovered.

A symbiont is an organism living in a relationship with another species in which one or both get benefits. When one species lives inside another species, or a microscopic symbiont lives inside the cells of a host, it is called an endosymbiont.

The relevance of symbiosis is its frequency and its evolutionary significance. There appear to be no higher plants or animals without symbionts. Those symbionts are of great importance to the larger organisms, who in most cases would be unable to live as they do without their symbionts. Mycorrhiza in higher plants, and gut flora in insects and vertebrates are examples. Humans are no exception.

Furthermore, most of these associations are between organisms not just from different species, but from different kingdoms. And lastly, the cells of all eukaryotes contain organelles which are descendents of symbiotic relationships which began at least a billion years ago. Mitochondria and plastids are examples. The conclusion must be that symbiosis has been highly significant in the evolution of life.

The definition of symbiosis is controversial among scientists. Some believe symbiosis should only refer to persistent mutualisms, while others believe it should apply to all kinds of persistent biological interactions.

The widest definition includes parasitism (in which one organism is helped and the other organism is hurt), mutualism (in which both organisms are helped), commensalism (in which one organism is helped and the other is not affected), and competition (in which both organisms are hurt). 

The various forms of symbiosis include:

Symbiosis does not always benefit both partners. This is what may happen:


This kind of symbiosis is called endosymbiosis. Examples are:
Almost for certain, this happened to form the eukaryote cell. That's the type of cell all animals and plants are made of. The organelles inside the cell, such as mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain some DNA. This DNA is the remnant of a once separate bacterium. The theory is that the eukaryote cell evolved by the fusion of several bacteria or archaea organisms.







</doc>
<doc id="21926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21926" title="Al Ain">
Al Ain

Al Ain (Arabic: العين) is a city in the United Arab Emirates. The city name literally means "the spring" or "the eye" in Arabic. This name come from the water sources in the area. The city is in the emirate of Abu Dhabi, right next to the border with Oman. It is often called the 'Garden City of the Persian Gulf' because of the many parks, tree-lined avenues and decorative roundabouts within the city. Al Ain, Abu Dhabi and Dubai form a kind of geographic triangle in the center of the country. Each city is around 150 kilometers from the other two. 

Al Ain is the fourth largest metropolitan area by population in the Emirates, with a population of 348,000 (2003 census estimate). There are more Emirati nationals in Al Ain than other places in the country, but most who live there are people who left other countries, particularly from the Indian sub-continent. There are fewer Western people than in the larger centers of Abu Dhabi and Dubai. This gives Al Ain a more 'Arabic' look and feel, compared to the larger cities of the Emirates.

The area has been lived in for more than 4000 years, and Al Ain is central to the cultural heritage of the country. There are many underground water springs in the area. This explains why people wanted to live there. Traces of its past remain, including camel racing and breeding. The ancient "falaj" system of irrigation is still in use in some areas. The system brings underground water to people by a network of tunnels that come out into open channels. The flow of water in the channels can be controlled.

Al Ain is becoming a place that tourists visit, with attractions such as Jebel Hafeet, a 1340 metre high mountain that dominates the surrounding area. Many tourists like to visit the mineral springs at the base and drive to the top of this mountain for sunset. Al Ain regularly records the highest summer temperatures in the country, but the dry desert air makes it a welcome escape from the coastal humidity of the larger cities. Other attractions include the Al Ain Oasis in the city centre, and other oases around the area, cool places to escape the summer heat, a zoo, amusement park named "Fun City", many well kept parks, popular with families in the summer evenings, a heritage village, as well as malls and other modern sites. Important buildings include United Arab Emirates University, Higher Colleges of Technology, well-equipped medical facilities, including the teaching hospital at Tawam, military training areas and Al Ain International Airport.

The city is home to the successful association football (soccer) club, Al Ain FC.


</doc>
<doc id="21928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21928" title="Jutland">
Jutland

Jutland (Danish: "Jylland"; German: "Jütland") is a peninsula in northern Europe. It forms the mainland part of Denmark and a northern part of Germany. It separates the North Sea from the Baltic Sea. Its terrain is relatively flat, with low hills and peat bogs. It has an area of 29,775 km² (11,496 square miles), and a population of 2,491,852 (2004).

The northern two thirds of the peninsula are occupied by the westernmost portion of the Kingdom of Denmark. There is no separate name for the Danish portion of the peninsula, so it is simply called the same name. The northernmost part of Jutland became an island following a flood in 1825; the Limfjord now separates it from the mainland. This island is called "Nørrejydske Ø" ("North Jutlandic Island") and is still commonly reckoned as part of the peninsula; it is also partly coterminous with the county and future region called North Jutland. 

The southern third is made up of the German Bundesland of Schleswig-Holstein, with the duchies of Schleswig (also Sønderjylland/Southern Jutland) and Holstein. Both duchies have passed back and forth between the Danes and various German rulers. In the last border movement, Denmark regained North Schleswig ("Nordslesvig" in Danish) by plebiscite in 1920. Southern Schleswig remained German.

The River Elbe forms the southern border of Jutland with the city of Hamburg on its shore. The Danish Wadden Sea Islands and the North Frisian Islands stretch along the southwest coast of Jutland in the German Bight.

The largest cities on the Jutland Peninsula are:


</doc>
<doc id="21929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21929" title="Plebiscite">
Plebiscite

A referendum, sometimes called a plebiscite, is a vote by all the people about a political issue. 

There are two types of referendum result

It usually depends on the country's history and constitution what sort of referendum is used. In Switzerland referenda are usually mandatory, because the people are seen as the source of the government's mandate (power) to govern. In the United Kingdom referenda have only been advisory, because the government say that the people elected parliament to make decisions.

An example of a recent plebiscite was the controversial decision by Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou to let the Greek people vote on whether or not the heavily indebted nation would accept a €130 billion bailout package from the European Union. The referendum sent a shockwave throughout euro-zone nations, as a "no" vote could mean Greece defaulting on its national debt, losing its membership in the European Union and, consequently, losing the euro as its national currency.

Another example was the voting on the European Constitution in 2005. The vote took place in some countries. France and The Netherlands had a "referendum" on the subject. In both states, the voters said no to the proposal. Referenda are an integral part of both indirect democracy and more so direct democracy.

The separate simultaneous referenda held on 24 April 2004 in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus on the comprehensive settlement plan of the UN Secretary-General provides yet another example of such a vote. The Plan was approved in the Turkish Cypriot referendum by 65%, while it was rejected in the Greek Cypriot referendum by 75%. 
Problems with using Referendums

Many political problems can be solved by asking the people their opinion because the supporters of the argument will be forced to accept the decision of the people.

However

-It is feared that the electorate do not have sufficient political knowledge in order to truly understand what they are voting for

-Philosophers Plato and Madison put forward the argument that voters are too easily persuaded by their own internal feelings of a matter instead of focusing on the good of the nation.


</doc>
<doc id="21931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21931" title="Dubai">
Dubai

Dubai or Dubayy (in Arabic: دبيّ) in English refers to either 


The ruler of Dubai was the late H.H. Sheikh Maktoum bin Rashid Al Maktoum, who was also the Vice-President of the United Arab Emirates. The new Ruler who is also the Vice-President and the Prime Minister of the UAE is H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, who was earlier the crown prince of Dubai is one of the Sheikh's younger brothers.

Dubai is the second largest emirate in the U.A.E. after Abu Dhabi; which is the capital. The emirate is located on the Persian Gulf, southwest of Sharjah and northeast of Abu Dhabi. The town of Hatta is an exclave of the emirate of Dubai and borders nearby Oman. 

Dubai is different from other members of the UAE because income from oil is only 6% of its gross domestic product. Most of the emirate's income is from the Jebel Ali Free Zone (JAFZ) and now, even more from tourism.

There are records of the town of Dubai from 1799. Earlier in the 18th century, the Al Abu Falasa line of Bani Yas clan established itself in Dubai. The city was a dependent of Abu Dhabi until 1833. 

On 8 January 1820, the sheikh of Dubai was one of the people who signed the British sponsored "General Treaty of Peace" (the General Maritime Treaty).

In 1833, the Al Maktoum dynasty of the Bani Yas tribe left Abu Dhabi and took over Dubai "without resistance". From that point on, Dubai, a newly independent emirate, was always struggling with the emirate of Abu Dhabi. An attempt by the Qawasim pirates to take over Dubai was stopped. In 1835, Dubai and the rest of the Trucial States signed a maritime truce with Britain and a "Perpetual Maritime Truce" about twenty years later. Dubai came under the protection of the United Kingdom (keeping out the Ottoman Turks) by the Exclusive Agreement of 1892. Like four of its neighbours, Abu Dhabi, Ras al-Khaimah, Sharjah and Umm al-Qaiwain, its being on the way to India made it an important place.

In March 1892, the Trucial States (or Trucial Oman) were created. 

The town of Dubai was an important port of call for foreign tradesmen (chiefly Indians), who settled in the town. Until the 1930s, the town was known for its pearls.

After the Gulf Rupee lost value in 1966, Dubai joined the newly independent state of Qatar to set up a new monetary unit, the Qatar/Dubai riyal. Oil was discovered 120 kilometres off the coast of Dubai, after which the town granted oil concessions. 

On 2 December 1971 Dubai formed the United Arab Emirates, together with Abu Dhabi and five other emirates. This was done after former protector Britain left the Persian Gulf in 1971. In 1973, Dubai joined the other emirates to adopt a single, uniform currency: the UAE dirham.

Oil supply in Dubai are less than 1/20 that of the emirate of Abu Dhabi, and oil money is now only a small part of the city's total money. Dubai and its twin across the Dubai creek, Deira (independent at that time), became important ports of call for Western manufacturers. Most of the new city's banking and financial centers were in this area. Dubai kept its importance as a trade route through the 1970s and 1980s. The city of Dubai has a free trade in gold and till the 1990s was the center of a "brisk smuggling trade" of gold ingots to India, where gold import was restricted (read the novel Dubai by Robin Moore). 

Today, Dubai is an important place for tourists and port (Jebel Ali, built in the 1970s, has the biggest man-made harbour in the world), but also increasingly becoming a center for service industries such as IT and finance, with the new Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC). Transport links are helped by its rapidly-expanding Emirates Airline, made by the government in 1985 and still state-owned. The airline is based at Dubai International Airport and carries over 12 million passengers every year.
The government has set up industry-specific free zones throughout the city. Dubai Internet City, now combined with Dubai Media City as part of TECOM (Dubai Technology, Electronic Commerce and Media Free Zone Authority) is one such enclave whose members include IT firms such as EMC Corporation, Oracle, Microsoft, and IBM, and media organisations such as MBC, CNN, Reuters, ARY and AP. Dubai Marina is a master plan development by EMAAR which will be the worlds largest marina when complete. Dubai Knowledge Village (KV) is an education and training hub is also set up to complement the Free Zone’s other two clusters, Dubai Internet city and Dubai Media City, by providing the facilities to train the clusters' future knowledge 
workers.

Dubai had a property boom when they announced freehold property resulting in large capital investments. With the global recession property prices have fallen dramatically.



</doc>
<doc id="21932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21932" title="Exclave">
Exclave

An exclave is strip of land that belongs to a political entity (like a country or a region) but that is not connected to it by land (islands are not counted). The strip of land is surrounded by other political entities. A good example is Kaliningrad Oblast (the region around the Russian city Kaliningrad). It belongs to the Russian Federation, but is separated from the rest of that country by territory belonging to Lithuania and Poland.

Although both meanings are close, an exclave might not be an enclave. An enclave is completely surrounded by one other country. For example, Kaliningrad is surrounded not by one state, but by two: Lithuania and Poland. It also borders the Baltic Sea. It is not an enclave. On the other hand, the Spanish exclave of Llivia is an enclave in France.

Many exclaves today have some sort of idea to become independent, especially if the exclave is far away from the Mainland.

A much more obscure use means, in medical discussion, a detached part of an organ, as of the pancreas, thyroid, or other gland.

The lists below are of various types of exclaves that are not enclaves.




Some territories are not geographically detached from their motherland. Nevertheless, they are more easily reached by entering a foreign country. Very often, this is because of their location in a hilly area. It may also be because the only road enters that foreign place before coming back to the mother country. These territories may be called "practical exclaves," "pene-exclaves" or "quasi-exclaves" and can be found along many borders, particularly those that are not heavily defended. They will only be attached to the motherland via an extremely small or thin slice of land.




later became part of Poland and Russia (see Kaliningrad above).




</doc>
<doc id="21933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21933" title="Enclave">
Enclave

In general use, an enclave can be any special area of a bigger area of land, such as a part of a city that has different taxes than the rest of the city.

In political geography, an enclave is a piece of land which has a different country totally arounded it. If another country has sovereignty over it, it is also called an "exclave" of that other country.

Exclaves can also exist within a country. This is when some administrative regions have "holes" (of other such regions) in them.

The word "enclave" is a relatively new word in the language of diplomacy: Diplomats are used to speaking French. The word comes from late Latin "inclavatus", which can be translated as "shut in, locked up" (with a key, from Latin "clavis", key). The word got in the English language in the year 1868. "exclave" (with a similar meaning) followed 3 decades later.

Enclaves may be created for a variety of historical, political or geographical reasons. Some areas have been left as enclaves simply because a river changed its course.

Since living in an enclave can be very inconvenient and many agreements have to be found by both countries over mail addresses, power supply or passage rights, enclaves tend to be eliminated and many cases that existed before have now been removed. Sometimes it is the case, that enclaves are traded for one another.

In English Church history, subnational enclaves were known as peculiars (see also Royal Peculiar).

Some enclaves are countries that are not part of any other country, and therefore not exclaves. Three such countries exist:
See also List of countries that border only one other country.


</doc>
<doc id="21934" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21934" title="Panhandle">
Panhandle

A panhandle is a word used in geography. What people mean when they talk about panhandles is a narrow strip of land, that is surrounded on all sides except one, by one or more countries or regions. The strip of land is connected to the country or region it belongs to on one side only. This looks like the handle of a frying pan. 

Panhandles include:


</doc>
<doc id="21935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21935" title="Category:Cities in the United Arab Emirates">
Category:Cities in the United Arab Emirates


</doc>
<doc id="21936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21936" title="Category:United Arab Emirates">
Category:United Arab Emirates

United Arab Emirates


</doc>
<doc id="21942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21942" title="New town">
New town

A new town, planned community, or planned city is a kind of city that is designed by architects and engineers before it is built. Most cities and towns just develop over the years, without a clear plan. Planned community neighborhoods are designed with separate districts of the city for parks, stores, homes, and offices. Planned communities have a transportation system for commuters.


</doc>
<doc id="21945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21945" title="Park">
Park

A park is an open place in a city or town for nature. There are often trees, benches, statues, and ponds in a park. Some parks built in big cities are very large. These can have fountains or picnic areas.

Sometimes, countries or regions set up "national parks". These are usually large areas of land. Those areas are made to protect the habitats of animals. Very often, a special permit is necessary to enter. Building things in the park is usually forbidden, or needs a special permit.

An example of a national park is Yellowstone National Park.


</doc>
<doc id="21949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21949" title="Pond">
Pond

A pond is a body of water smaller than a lake. Ponds support a very wide range of wildlife: ducks, turtles, swans, small fish, and frogs can live in a pond. Usually, in most ponds sunlight can reach to bottom. In some cases ponds do not last all year round. This type of pond is called a vernal pond, or ephemeral, seasonal, or temporary wetlands. These types of ponds do not have any fish.


</doc>
<doc id="21955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21955" title="Swan">
Swan

A swan ("Cygnini") is a kind of water bird, from the genera Cygnus and Coscoroba. They are in the subfamily "Anserinae", in the family "Anatidae", which also includes geese and ducks.

Many swans live in colder places, such as northern Europe, Asia and North America. They live on water. They swim on top of the water and eat plants off the bottom of ponds, lakes, or oceans. They also eat insects and other small animals. Swans can also fly.

A baby swan is called a "Cygnet". The name of the constellation "Cygnus" is from the Latin word for swan.

The swans are some of the largest flying birds. They are large in size and have large feet and long necks. The males are usually bigger and heavier than females. The Mute Swan, Trumpeter Swan, and Whooper Swan are the largest swans. They can be over 1.5m (60 inches) long. They can weigh over 15kg (33 pounds). Their wingspans (this means the length of both wings) can be almost 3m (10 ft). 

Most swans are white. These swan are found in the Northern Hemisphere. This means they are found in Europe, Asia and North America. However, the Black Swan is black with a red beak. It lives in Australia. The Black Necked Swan is white but it has a black neck. It lives in South America. They also have a small area of skin between the eyes and beak that has no feathers. This area can be different colors, such as yellow (for example, on a Bewick's Swan) or orange (for example, on a Mute Swan).

The Coscoroba Swan is different to the other swans. Some scientists think it is more like a duck or a goose. It is the smaller than the other swans. This swan lives in South America.


</doc>
<doc id="21957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21957" title="Pupa">
Pupa

A pupa (plural: pupae or pupas) is part of becoming an adult for some insects, like some butterflies, moths, beetles, flies, and bees. The pupal stage comes after being a larva; the next stage is adulthood.

The pupa stage of a butterfly, called a chrysalis (plural "chrysalids"), is a well-known example of a pupa because they are often found in the open.


</doc>
<doc id="21962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21962" title="Paul">
Paul

Paul is a common male name. Some men who were called Paul are:




</doc>
<doc id="21963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21963" title="Goose">
Goose

Goose (plural geese) is the general English name for a large number of long-necked birds, belonging to the family "Anatidae". 

This family also includes the swans, which are mostly larger than geese, and the ducks, which are smaller and have short necks.

Geese migrate in groups in the spring and fall, flying together in a V-shape.

A male goose is called a "gander" and a baby goose is called a "gosling". A group of geese is called a "gaggle".


</doc>
<doc id="21966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21966" title="Ovary">
Ovary

Ovaries (Singular: Ovary) are organs found in female organisms. Ovaries are part of the reproductive system needed to reproduce sexually. 

Most vertebrates have ovaries. Usually animals have two ovaries. Birds usually have only one working ovary, snakes have one ovary in front of the other. The ovaries are similar to testicles in men.

Ovaries are shaped like eggs and are around 3 cm by 1.5 cm by 1.5 cm. The ovary is found in the side walls of the pelvis. 

Each ovary is attached to the Fallopian tube. Usually each ovary takes turns releasing eggs every month.

Ovaries have two purposes:

During menstruation, a ovum is released from the ovary to be fertilised. Ovaries have a certain number of eggs in them, so when eggs stop being released, this is the start of the menopause. During this time, female hormones stop being produced.




</doc>
<doc id="21973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21973" title="Axe">
Axe

Axe (or ax) is an ancient tool used to shape, split and cut wood.

In the past, axes were used as weapons by soldiers. Today, axes are usually related to woodcutters and firemen.
Axes are simple machines. They are in the category of wedges. They are usually made of some sort of metal, mainly steel or iron. They can have a metal or wooden handle. 


</doc>
<doc id="21975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21975" title="Rhinoceros">
Rhinoceros

A rhinoceros (also called a rhino for short) is any of five living species of mammals in the family Rhinocerotidae, of the order Perissodactyla.


All five rhinoceros species are native to Africa or Asia. The two species in Africa are the "White Rhinoceros" and the "Black Rhinoceros". The three species in Asia (including islands of Indonesia) are the "Javan Rhinoceros", "Sumatran Rhinoceros", and "Indian Rhinoceros".

The rhinoceros is an herbivore.

Rhinoceroses have a large horn on the nose. Their horns are not like those of other horned mammals: the rhinoceros' horn is made of keratin packed together very tightly. 

Only the White Rhinoceros is not in critical danger of becoming extinct because of humans killing them even though it is illegal, and the White Rhino in some danger of becoming extinct. Loss of habitat is also a danger to all rhinos. Rhinos are becoming extinct because people are still killing them for money even though the government made logging their habitat and poaching illegal. 
Rhinoceros horns are used in Asian medicine, and for dagger handles in Yemen and Oman which is leading to extinction of these animals.



</doc>
<doc id="21976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21976" title="Alcoholic proof">
Alcoholic proof

Alcoholic proof is a measure of how much ethanol there is in an alcoholic drink. It is commonly used in the United States, where it is about double the percentage of alcohol by volume (ABV or Alc/Vol).

This system was introduced in the 18th century. It might have been earlier, when spirits were tested with gunpowder: a mixture of water and alcohol "proved" itself when it could be poured on a small amount of gunpowder and still light up the wet powder. If the powder did not ignite, the mixture had too much water in it and the proof was considered low. This process led to the nickname "firewater", given by Native Americans.

A "proven" solution was defined as 100 degrees proof (100°). People have found out that this takes 57.15% ethanol. This value is still used as the British definition. A simpler ratio to remember is "seven to four": 70° proof is 40% alcohol by volume.

A hydrometer can be used to measure the precise proof of a spirit. This test has gone through many formal changes.

The European Union member nations have broadly adopted the recommendation of the International Organization of Legal Metrology (OIML) which measures percentage of alcohol by volume at 20°C.

In Britain, this replaced the Sikes hydrometer system (based on proof spirit) which was used since 1816, although officially the "Customs and Excise Act of 1952" defined "spirits of proof strength" (or proof spirits):

Previously, Clarke's hydrometer had been used since the 1740s when Customs and Excise and London brewers and distillers began to use Clarke's hydrometer.

In the definition of the United States, the proof number is twice the percentage of the alcohol content measured by volume at a temperature of 60°F (15.5°C). Therefore "80 proof" is 40% alcohol by volume (most of the other 60% is water). If an 150 proof beverage is mixed half-and-half with water, the drink is 75 proof.

US Federal regulation (CFR 27 5.37 Alcohol Content) requires that liquor labels state the percentage alcohol by volume (sometimes abbreviated ABV). The regulations permit (but do not require) a statement of the degrees proof as long as it is right next to the percentage alcohol by volume. 

Alcohol is produced by yeast during the process of fermentation. The other product of fermentation is carbon dioxide, which is the gas that can make beer bottles explode or blow their tops off. The amount of alcohol in the finished liquid depends on how much sugar there was at the beginning for the yeast to convert into alcohol. In beer, the alcohol is generally 3% to 12% (6 to 24 proof) and usually about 4% to 6% (8 to 12 proof). Depending on the strain of yeast, wines top out at about 14% to 16% (28 to 32 proof), because that is the point in the fermentation process where the alcohol concentration denatures the yeast. Since the 1990s, a few alcohol-tolerant 'superyeast' strains have become commercially available, which can ferment up to 20%. 

Very few microorganisms can live in alcoholic solutions. The main three are yeast, "Brettanomyces", and "Acetobacter". In what is essentially disinfection, yeast keeps multiplying as long as there is sugar to "eat", gradually increasing the alcoholic content of the solution and killing off all other microorganisms, and eventually themselves. There are "fortified" wines with a higher alcohol concentration than that because stronger alcohol has been mixed with them.

Stronger liquors are distilled after fermentation is complete to separate the alcoholic liquid from the remains of the grain, fruit, or whatever it was made from. The idea of distillation is that a mixture of liquids is heated, the one with the lowest boiling point will evaporate (or "boil off") first, and then the one with the next lowest boiling point, and so on. The catch is that water and alcohol form a mixture (called an azeotrope) that has a lower boiling point than either one of them, so what distills off first is that mixture that is 95% alcohol and 5% water. Thus a distilled liquor cannot be stronger than 95% (190 proof); there are other techniques for separating liquids that can produce 100% ethanol (or "absolute alcohol"), but they are used only for scientific or industrial purposes. 100% ethanol does not stay 100% for very long, because it is hygroscopic and absorbs water out of the atmosphere.



</doc>
<doc id="21977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21977" title="Acetobacter">
Acetobacter

Acetobacter is a kind of bacteria. These bacteria are 
known by their ability to change alcohol to acetic acid in the presence of air. There are several species within this genus, and there are other bacteria that can form acetic acid under different conditions; but all of the "Acetobacer" are known by this ability.

"Acetobacter" are important to people, because:

Sometimes, "Acetobacter" is not wanted. It can be killed by adding preservatives like Sulfur dioxides, or by getting rid of the air when the wine is stored. 


</doc>
<doc id="21978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21978" title="Archbishop of Canterbury">
Archbishop of Canterbury

The Archbishop of Canterbury is the spiritual leader of the Church of England and the Anglican Communion. He is the head of the Church, and lives in the English city of Canterbury. The Archbishop is chosen by the English monarch, under guidance from senior bishops. 

The office of Archbishop of Canterbury began in the year 597. In that year, Saint Augustine came to England, to the area called Kent. He had been sent by the Pope to convince the local people to become Christians. The people accepted him and Christianity when their King (Ethelbert of Kent) became a Christian. Since then, there has been an Archbishop at Canterbury in Kent.

The Archbishop of Canterbury used to be head of the Roman Catholic Church in England, but in the 1500s the English church broke away from the Roman church. The new church called itself the Church of England, and now the Archbishop is the leader of that church. The current Archbishop is Rowan Williams. the church however does not really speak ou much and is not really involved in the infasturucture of the uk



</doc>
<doc id="21979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21979" title="Ethanol">
Ethanol

Ethanol, also known as ethyl alcohol or grain alcohol, is a flammable, colorless chemical compound, one of the alcohols that is most often found in alcoholic drinks. When people talk about it, they often name it simply as "alcohol". Its chemical formula is CHOH, also written as CHO. It is used as a solvent because it can dissolve many other chemicals and is not very toxic.

Ethanol fuel can be used instead of gasoline in cars and other engines. Engines can use pure ethanol or ethanol mixed with gasoline.

In Brazil, ethanol fuel made from sugar cane provides 18 percent of the country's fuel for cars. Because of this, Brazil does not have to buy oil from other countries. 
To do this, Brazil cut down much of the rain forests to grow more sugar cane, which is then fermented into Ethanol.

Most cars in the U.S. can run on fuels that have of up to 10% ethanol in them. Car makers like Ford, DaimlerChrysler, and GM also make vehicles run that run higher ethanol blends. Some of their engines can run on up to 85% ethanol (E85). By mid-2006, there were about six million E85-compatible vehicles on U.S. roads.



</doc>
<doc id="21982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21982" title="Boiling point">
Boiling point

The boiling point of a substance is the temperature at which the substance boils, or enters a state of rapid evaporation. For water this is 100° Celsius or 212° Fahrenheit.

One can change the boiling point of liquids by adding an "inhibitor." The change in boiling point can be found about right from:
ΔT="K"·"m" 
where ΔT = change in boiling point, 
K = a constant (this is .56 for water), and
"m" = molality of the solute.

The boiling point of a liquid also depends on the pressure of the surrounding air. An increase in air pressure increases the boiling point; a decrease decreases the boiling point. In the low pressure environment at the top of Mt Everest for example, water boils at only 69 °C. (156.2 °F).
It can also be defined in terms of vapour pressure as the temperature at which vapour pressure of liquid becomes equal to atmospheric pressure

If you add sugar, salt or any other impurities to the water, it will usually make the boiling point higher. An exception is alcohol, which will have a lower boiling point.


</doc>
<doc id="21986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21986" title="Platonic solid">
Platonic solid

A platonic solid is a three dimensional shape. It has the following characteristics:


The following Platonic solids exist; there are only 5:


The shapes are often used to make dice, because dice of these shapes can be made fair. 6-sided dice are very common, but the other numbers are commonly used in role-playing games. Such dice are commonly referred to as D followed by the number of faces (d8, d20 etc.).

The tetrahedron (4 sided), cube (6 sided), and octahedron (8 sided), are found naturally in crystal structures. The dodecahedron (12 sides) is combinatorially identical to the pyritohedron (in that both have twelve pentagonal faces), which is one of the possible crystal structures of pyrite. However, the pyritohedron is not a regular dodecahedron, but rather has the same symmetry as the cube.

In meteorology and climatology, global numerical models of atmospheric flow are of increasing interest which use grids that are based on an icosahedron (20 sides,refined by triangulation) instead of the more commonly used longitude/latitude grid. This has the advantage of better spatial resolution without singularities (i.e. the poles) at the expense of somewhat greater numerical difficulty.

Geometry of space frames is often based on platonic solids. 



</doc>
<doc id="21987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21987" title="Euclidean algorithm">
Euclidean algorithm

The Euclidean algorithm is an algorithm. It can be used to find the biggest number that divides two other numbers (the greatest common divisor of two numbers).

Euclid solved the problem graphically. He said

Start out with two integers "a" and "b". Let "m" have the same value as "a", and "n" have the same value as "b".

Note: This pseudocode uses modular arithmetic instead of subtraction. It does the same thing as above, but gets the answer faster.

Precondition: two integers "m" and "n"
Postcondition: the greatest common integer divisor of "m" and "n"
Iterative (Non-recursive):
Recursive:


</doc>
<doc id="21991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21991" title="Eukaryote">
Eukaryote

A eukaryote is an organism with complex cells, or a single cell with a complex structure. 

In these cells the genetic material is organized into chromosomes in membrane-bound nuclei. 

Animals, plants, algae and fungi are all eukaryotes. There are also eukaryotes amongst the protists. 

In contrast, simpler organisms, such as bacteria and archaea, do not have nuclei and other complex cell structures. Such organisms are called prokaryotes. 

The eukaryotes are often treated as a superkingdom, or domain. 

The oldest known eukaryote is "Grypania", a coiled, unbranched filament up to 30mm long. It was found in strata 2.1 billion years old. Another ancient group is the acritarchs, believed to be the cysts or reproductive stages of algal plankton. They are found 1400 million years ago, in the Proterozoic eon.

Eukaryotic cells are usually much bigger than prokaryotes. They can be up to 10 times bigger. Eukaryote cells have many different internal membranes and structures, called organelles. They also have a cytoskeleton. The cytoskeleton is made up of microtubules and microfilaments. Those parts are very important in the cell's shape. Eukaryotic DNA is put in bundles called chromosomes, which are separated by a microtubular spindle during cell division. Most eukaryotes have some sort of sexual reproduction through fertilisation, which prokaryotes do not use. 

Prokayotes do not have sexes, but they can pass DNA to other bacteria. Their cell division is asexual. Bacterial conjugation is when bacteria give each each DNA by touching each other or making something like a bridge to go between them. 

Eukaryotes have sets of linear chromosomes located in the nucleus and the number of chromosomes is usually typical for each species.

In eukaryotic cells, there are many things with membranes around them. All of them together are called the endomembrane system. Simple bags, called vesicles or vacuoles, are sometimes made by budding off other membranes, just like how children make bubbles with their toys. Many cells take in food and other things using something called endocytosis. In endocytosis, the membrane closest to the outside bends inwards and then pinches off to make a vesicle. Many other organelles that have membranes probably started off as vesicles.

The nucleus is surrounded by two membranes membrane that has holes in it so things can go in and out. The nuclear envelope has things sticking out of it that look like tubes and sheets. These are called the endoplasmic reticulum which is often shortened to ER. The ER is works with moving proteins around and allowing them to mature. 

The ER has two parts, the rough ER and the smooth ER. The rough ER has ribosomes attached to it. The proteins made by the ribosomes attached to the rough ER go to the inside the rough ER, called the lumen. After that, they usually go into vesicles, which grow and pinch off from the smooth ER. In most eukaryotes, the vesicles with proteins inside fuse with piles of flattened vesicles called the Golgi bodies, where the proteins inside are changed again.

Vesicles are sometimes changed so they can do one thing very well. This is called specialization, or differentiation. For example, lysosomes have enzymes inside them that break down the food the comes from food vacuoles, and peroxisomes have enzymes that break down peroxide, a poison, so it is not poisonous anymore. 

Many protozoa have contractile vacuoles, which are vacuoles that can fuse or pinch off from the outer membrane. Contractile vesicles are often used to get and get rid of unneeded water. Extrusomes shoot out stuff that make predators go away or catch food. In multicellular organisms, hormones are often made in vesicles. In the complicated plants, most of the inside of a plant cell is taken up by a central vacuole. That central vacuole is the main thing that keeps osmotic pressure so the cell can hold its shape.

Because the cell organelles of eukaryotes have different (polyphyletic) origins, the question arises as to whether the group is a unified clade or not. It is certain that the protists are not. Cell organelles are specialised units which carry out well-defined functions, like mitochondria and plastids. It is fairly clear now that all or most of these organelles have their origin in once-independent prokaryotes (bacteria or archaea), and that the eukaryote cell is a 'community of micro-organisms' working together in 'a marriage of convenience'. The first such events took place between ancient bacteria to produce the double-membrane class known as gram-negative bacteria. Since the gram-negative bacteria include the cyanobacteria, this was the first of several such events in the history of the eukaryotes.

"Protista" is a group of different single-celled organisms. More accurate taxonomies have been proposed, but scientists are still discussing them. For this reason, Protista is still useful for talking about these organisms. One modern scheme for the classification of the Eukarya is as follows: 

The implication of this might be that the Eukarya are only unified in the fact that the cells are a community derived from bacteria and archaea; but the derivations vary. The conclusion may be that, like the Protista, the Eukarya is a polyphyletic assembly, though a useful one. However, as mentioned above, all branches of the Eukarya have sexual reproduction. That, and the general organisation of the nucleus, are defining features. It is on this that the issue of monophyletic origin rests.


</doc>
<doc id="21992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21992" title="Unicellular organism">
Unicellular organism

Unicellular organisms are organisms that have one cell. They are divided into two quite different types, from different classification kingdoms. 


The differences between the prokaryota and eukaryota are significant. Eukaryotes possess a nucleus, while prokaryotes lack it, and eukaryotes possess a range of subcellular organs called organelles, which prokaryotes do not.

You can observe the larger unicellular organisms, balal, by using a compound microscope. Bacteria just appear as dark dots. To gather unicellular organisms for observation, one can place a cover slip on the surface of pond water, and leave it overnight. By the next morning, numerous unicellular organisms will have grown entire colonies on the bottom of the slip. piskeyys are sms replicate fast: colonies can double their size in between 30 minutes and a few hours.

Unicellular organisms can be found everywhere. The oldest forms of life, unicellular organisms existed 3.8 billion years ago, if not longer. They pursue a variety of strategies for survival: photosynthesis (cyanobacteria), chemotrophy (many archaea), and heterotrophy (amoeba). Some unicellular organisms have flagella, little tails they use for locomotion, or lobopods, extensions of the cellular skeleton (cytoskeleton), which appear as bloblike arms. The flagella of our unicellular ancestors is retained all the way up into the animals, where it makes an appearance as flagellated sperm.

Of all the six eukaryote supergroups, four are exclusively composed of unicellular organisms. Unicellular organisms vary in size, with the smallest bacteria measuring only a third of a micron (300 nanometers) across, ranging up to the titantic plasmodial slime molds, which can grow to 20 cm (8 in) across. The largest unicellular organisms may have millions of nuclei scattered throughout the cellular envelope. To observe some of the smallest unicellular organisms requires an electron microscope, while the very largest can be seen with a microscope or anything that enhances images.
meh




</doc>
<doc id="21995" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21995" title="Multicellular organism">
Multicellular organism

Multicellular organisms are organisms with more than one cell. This is the case for most animals and plants that can be seen (without the use of a microscope). 

In such organisms, cells are usually specialised. All the cells with the same function group together. Such a group of cells is then called a tissue.

Multicellular organisms have a set of cells that specialize in reproduction. Reproduction in such organisms is usually sexual. The sex cells are either sperm or ovum (also named "egg") cells. If they are sperm cells, the organism is male, if they are egg cells it is female. If both are present, the organism is a hermaphrodite.

We know, from their cell structure, that multicellularity has evolved independently many times in Earth history, for example in plants and animals.
However, the earliest forms of life in the fossil record are cyanobacteria from the Archaean era at 3.5 billion years ago. They grew as single cells but lived in colonies as stromatolites. 
The first multicellular fossils have been found in 2.1 billion years old Palaeoproterozoic rocks from the Gabon in Africa. These are eukaryotic cells which live colonially. The fossils are visible to the naked eye, and hence much larger than bacteria. The authors comment that one advantage of multicellularity is larger size, and that an adequate level of oxygen is required to support this kind of life. 

The author's interpretation of this discovery will be tested by other scientists.

In order to reproduce, true multicellular organisms must solve the problem of regenerating a whole organism from germ cells (i.e. sperm and egg cells), an issue that is studied in developmental biology. 
Multicellular organisms, especially long-living animals, also face the challenge of cancer, which occurs when cells fail to regulate their growth within the normal program of development. Changes in tissue morphology can be observed during this process.



</doc>
<doc id="22000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22000" title="Kazan State University">
Kazan State University

Kazan State University is a university located in Kazan, Tatarstan, Russia. It was founded in 1804. The famous Russian mathematician Lobachevsky was its rector from 1827 till 1846. The current rector is Myakzyum Salakhov (Mäğzüm Säläxev).

Kazan University is also known as "the birthplace of organic chemistry" because of the works of Aleksandr Butlerov, Vladimir Markovnikov, Aleksandr Arbuzov, and others.





</doc>
<doc id="22002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22002" title="New World">
New World

The New World is a name given to the lands and islands found by Christopher Columbus. Today, this is North America and the Caribbean. It was also said about South America.

The continent was named America after Amerigo Vespucci only later on.



</doc>
<doc id="22016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22016" title="Rabbit">
Rabbit

Rabbits are mammals of the order Lagomorpha. There are about fifty different species of rabbits and hares. The order Lagomorpha is made of rabbits, pikas and hares. Rabbits can be found in many parts of the world. They live in families and eat vegetables and hay. In the wild, rabbits live in burrows, that they dig themselves. A group of rabbits living together in a burrow is called a warren. 

A male rabbit is called a buck, and a female is called a doe. A baby rabbit is called a kit, which is short for kitten. Rabbits have a gestation period of around 31 days. The female can have up to 12-13, very rarely litters as big as 18 and as small as one.

Some people have rabbits as pets. Rabbits are also raised as meat animals. Rabbits are of a different biological classification than hares. 

Since rabbits are prey animals, they tend to be in new spaces and when with a threat, they freeze and observe. Rabbit vision has a very wide field, and a good deal of it is devoted to overhead scanning. Even indoors, rabbits will scan for overhead threats.

Rabbits have a complex social structure, and like dogs, will try to get a and .


</doc>
<doc id="22032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22032" title="Louis Pasteur">
Louis Pasteur

Louis Pasteur (December 27, 1822 – September 28, 1895) was a French microbiologist and chemist. 
He and also his wife, Marie, are best known for their experiments supporting the Germ theory of disease, and he is also known for his vaccinations, most notably the first vaccine against rabies. He made many discoveries in the field of chemistry, most notably the asymmetry (different shapes) of crystals. He is also well known for his way of keeping milk and wine from going sour for longer. That process is called pasteurization.

Pasteur's later work on diseases included work on chicken cholera. During this work, Pasteur noticed how a culture of the responsible bacteria had spoiled, and it failed to induce the disease in some chickens which he was infecting with the disease.

Louis Pasteur was born on December 27, 1822, in Dole in the Jura region of France, into the family of a poor tanner. Louis grew up in the town of Arbois. He gained degrees in Letters and in Mathematical Sciences before entering the École Normale Supérieure, an elite college. After serving briefly as professor of physics at Dijon Lycée in 1848, he became professor of chemistry at the University of Strasbourg, where he met and courted Marie Laurent, daughter of the university's rector, in 1849.

Louis Pasteur and Marie were married on May 29, 1849, and together had five children. Only two survived to adulthood; his other three children had died of typhoid fever. These personal tragedies inspired Pasteur to try to find cures for diseases, such as typhoid.


</doc>
<doc id="22036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22036" title="Akrotiri and Dhekelia">
Akrotiri and Dhekelia

Akrotiri and Dhekelia are two areas on the island of Cyprus that are used as military bases of the United Kingdom. The bases were kept by the UK after Cyprus changed from being a colony in the British Empire, to being an independent republic. The United Kingdom kept them because of the important location of Cyprus in the Mediterranean Sea.


</doc>
<doc id="22037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22037" title="Transcontinental country">
Transcontinental country

A transcontinental country is a nation that is on more than one continent. It can be either in geography, like Turkey, or in culture, like Cyprus or Armenia. They can be in one continent, but have a culture that is similar to that of another continent.


</doc>
<doc id="22040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22040" title="Category:Cyprus">
Category:Cyprus


</doc>
<doc id="22044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22044" title="Kurów">
Kurów

Kurów is a village in south-eastern Poland, near Puławy and Lublin, on the Kurówka River. It is the main village of a gmina within the Lublin Voivodship and has 2826 people living there (as of 2010). The village was built before 1185 and made bigger between 1431 and 1442 with city rights based on the Magdeburg Law. The former President of Poland, Wojciech Jaruzelski was born in Kurów in 1923.


</doc>
<doc id="22045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22045" title="Scorpion">
Scorpion

Scorpions are eight legged venomous arachnids. They have a long body with an extended tail with a sting. The average adult scorpion reaches approximately 3 inches in length. The longest scorpion on earth is the African Scorpion, which can reach a total length of 9 inches. There are over 1,300 species of scorpions worldwide.

Scorpions have developed many ways to survive in the desert. They have developed the ability to slow down their metabolism. This allows them to survive on as little as one insect per year. This ability also allows them to shelter from the sun and heat for extended periods of time, using only little amounts of oxygen. 
Many people also believe that their claws, or pincers, were once front legs that have turned into what they now are by going through evolution. Nevertheless, the scorpions' claws play a crucial part in their hunting and mating rituals.
Scorpions also possess a special, feather-like pair of organs, called pectines that they use to sense even the smallest of movements around them. This allows them to effectively track down and hunt their prey, either above or below the surface. This also warns them of possible dangers, such as other bigger hunters.
The scorpion’s most feared and recognized feature is its sting. The sting contains a neurotoxin, which the scorpion uses to paralyze the victim, so it would be easier to kill and eat. They also stay hidden under rocks and that makes their body temperature cool.

The scorpion’s body is divided into two parts, the "prosoma", and the abdomen -which is further divided into the mesosoma and the metasoma- which are both surrounded by the cuticle.

This is the scorpion’s head, the carapace, the eyes, the mouthparts, the claws (or pedipalps), and four legs. 

The front half of the abdomen is made up of six segments. The first segment contains the sexual organs and the other organs which are used in the scorpion’s mating ritual. The second segment contains the feather like pectines, which are used to sense movement in the air and ground. The final four segments each contain a pair of book lungs, which are the lungs found in arachnids, the mesosoma is armored by an extra layer. This extra layer is made up of chitinous plates, which are the plates usually found in the cell walls of fungi, and the exoskeletons of insects and arachnids.

This is the scorpion’s tail, and the second half of its abdomen. A scorpion’s sting is made up of six segments, ending in the telson, or the sting. The telson itself holds the vesicle, which is the gland containing the scorpion’s venom. The scorpion’s venom is classified as neurotoxic in nature. This means that it can be used to either kill or paralyze the victim. The general rule is that the smaller the claws of the scorpion, the more deadly the venom is, as scorpions with deadly venoms do not need their claws, while those with not-so-deadly venom need to rely on their claws more, so they are bigger and stronger.

This is the scorpion’s tough exterior. It is partially covered by hairs that help the scorpion keep balance. The cuticle is also covered by hyaline layer, which makes them fluoresce green when exposed to ultraviolet light. This layer does not appear on newly molted scorpions, appearing only on hardened and matured cuticles. This hyaline layer can be found intact inside fossils that are millions of years old.

The mating ritual of scorpions begins when the male and female connect claws. After this they verify that the other scorpion is of the same species, and is the opposite gender. After this, the male leads the female around until it finds a suitable spot to deposit its spermatophore. Once the male has found a suitable spot, he guides the female over it, where it enters her and fertilizes her. The mating ritual can take anywhere between 1 and 26 hours, depending on the male’s ability to find a suitable spot. Only a scorpion that has reached maturity may go through the mating ritual. A scorpion reaches maturity after it has gone through 5 to 7 moults.

Scorpions are an independent species, only relying on their mother until they reach maturity. It is not uncommon for a scorpling to kill another one of it’s siblings in a competition for food. How a scorpion chooses its mate is not certain, but many predict it is a random event, depending on chance meetings.


</doc>
<doc id="22055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22055" title="1216">
1216

1216 was a leap year starting on a Friday in the Julian calendar.





</doc>
<doc id="22056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22056" title="John Schlesinger">
John Schlesinger

John Richard Schlesinger, CBE (16 February 1926–25 July 2003) was a British film director.


</doc>
<doc id="22057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22057" title="Landjäger">
Landjäger

Landjäger (or Landjaeger) is a type of German sausage. The name stands for "hunter's sausage". It is smoked, so it does not need refrigeration. Usually, some of the water has also been taken out (they are dehydrated).


</doc>
<doc id="22059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22059" title="Gilbert and Ellice Islands">
Gilbert and Ellice Islands

The Gilbert and Ellice Islands were a British protectorate from 1892 and colony from 1916. They are formed from two groups of islands in the Pacific Ocean. On 1 January 1976 the islands were split into two different colonies that became independent states. The Gilbert Islands have been the biggest part of the nation of Kiribati since 1979, and the Ellice Islands became Tuvalu in 1978.


</doc>
<doc id="22060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22060" title="Casablanca">
Casablanca

Casablanca (classical Arabic name: الدار البيضاء, "the white house"; Spanish:Casablanca, "whitehouse") is a city in western Morocco, located on the Atlantic Ocean. 

With a population of 2.95 million (September 2004 census), Casablanca is Morocco's biggest city.



</doc>
<doc id="22062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22062" title="Category:Morocco">
Category:Morocco

Country of Morocco


</doc>
<doc id="22063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22063" title="Category:Denmark">
Category:Denmark


</doc>
<doc id="22068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22068" title="Bhavani River">
Bhavani River

Bhavani River is a river in Tamil Nadu, India.


</doc>
<doc id="22076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22076" title="Flatulence">
Flatulence

Flatulence, also called fart, is when gas leaves the anus. This may sometimes happen with a loud sound. In mammals like humans, the gases come from two sources: swallowed air (for example, while eating, talking or drinking) and gases naturally created by bacteria in the body during digestion. This can cause it to have a bad smell. The different gases that the body releases are also known as nitrogen, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon dioxide and methane. Methane is highly flammable, but not all humans produce flatulence containing it.


</doc>
<doc id="22078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22078" title="Computability theory">
Computability theory

Computability theory is part of computer science. Scientists want to know what can be computed, and what can not. 

There is a model of a computer that is used for this. It is called the Turing machine. A Turing machine basically is a special typewriter with an endless ribbon. The machine is named after the mathematician Alan Turing.

A problem is "computable" if it can be expressed in such a way that a Turing machine can solve it. 

One of the best known examples is the Halting problem. The task is to write a program which says for all programs whether they will finally stop. This is impossible to decide. Mathematicians say the problem is undecidable.


</doc>
<doc id="22079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22079" title="Batman (city)">
Batman (city)

Batman is a city in southeast Turkey. It is the capital (city) of the province with the same name. In 2003, about 266.100 people lived in the city. There are many Kurds in that area. The area is also rich in oil and gas.

There is a railway track at Kurtalan, near this city. The track runs all the way to Istanbul. There is also an airport near Batman. The name is short for the Bati Raman mountains.



</doc>
<doc id="22081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22081" title="Typewriter">
Typewriter

A typewriter is a machine. People used it to type letters and books. Nowadays they use a computer and a printer for the same thing.

In the early days of the typewriter, up to the early 1900s, people said that the person typing the letters was a typewriter. Those people became later known as typists.


</doc>
<doc id="22082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22082" title="Nocturnal">
Nocturnal

Nocturnal (Latin: "nox" - night, darkness) animals are animals that are mainly active during the night. They hunt or feed during the night, and sleep during the day. Diurnal animals do it the other way around.

Scientists sometimes use the word "crepuscular" to describe nocturnal animals that are not active when it is very dark at night; they are mostly active near dawn, dusk, and sometimes when the moon makes a lot of light. 

Nocturnal animals also have a high sensitivity to their eyes, and when flashed really brightly with lights appear red, orange, amber, or topaz.


</doc>
<doc id="22087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22087" title="Censorship">
Censorship

Censorship is when certain facts changed or left out on purpose. It is the suppression of speech or deletion of communicative material which may be considered objectionable, harmful, sensitive, or inconvenient to the government or media organizations as determined by a censor. This can be done for different reasons. Most often things are censored for one or more of the following reasons:

A censor is a person whose job is to look at all types of media and remove material. There are many reasons to censor something, like protecting military secrets, stopping immoral or anti-religious works, or keeping political power. Censorship is almost always used as an insult, and there is much debate over what censorship is and when it is okay.

When there is freedom of speech and freedom of the press, most information can published. However, even in developed countries with much freedom of the press, there are some things that cannot be published. For example, journalists are usually not allowed to publish many secrets about the military, like where troops will be sent on a mission. Pornography is censored in some countries because it is seen as not moral. For these reasons, the government might arrest anyone who publishes it. 

There is much debate about when censorship should be allowed. For example, U.S. President Richard Nixon censored the New York Times when they tried to publish articles about the Pentagon Papers, a group of classified military documents that showed that Nixon and the military lied about the Vietnam War. The Supreme Court in New York Times Co v. United States overturned the censorship, saying that Nixon had not shown it would be dangerous to the military, just embarrassing. In other countries, journalists and bloggers (who are usually not seen as journalists) are sometimes arrested for saying bad things about the government. In Egypt, Kareem Amer was famously arrested for insulting Islam and calling the president of Egypt, Hosni Mubarak, a dictator. 

Governments are not the only ones who censor information. For example, when the history department at Middlebury College did not allow professors to accept Wikipedia as a source in papers, some said it was censorship. This was because the department was telling professors (who usually have academic freedom) what works they should and should not accept. Sometimes, a group or a website will not allow some facts, articles, and pictures that they do not think should be seen. There is much debate over the difference between censorship and editing, that is, deciding what should or should not be published.


</doc>
<doc id="22088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22088" title="Czestochowa">
Czestochowa

Częstochowa is a city in south Poland on the Warta River. It has 248,894 residents. It has been located in the Silesian Voivodship (administrative division) since 1999, and was once the capital of Częstochowa Voivodship (1975-1998).

The town is known for the famous monastery of Jasna Góra Monastery, which is the home of the Black Madonna painting, a shrine of the Virgin Mary. Every year, thousands of people from all over the world come to Częstochowa to see it. 

The name Częstochowa means Częstoch's place, and comes from the name of a person, Częstoch. It is mentioned in medieval documents also as Częstobor and Częstomir. Częstochowa is also known as Czestochowa, Czenstochov, and Chenstochov.

Currently, the city is one of the main tourist attractions in the area. It attracts hundreds of thousands of visitors every year.
The Black Madonna of Częstochowa, kept at the Jasna Góra Monastery, is a very popular attraction.


</doc>
<doc id="22091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22091" title="Voivodeships of Poland">
Voivodeships of Poland

A Voivodeship is one of 16 different divisions of land in Poland. 


</doc>
<doc id="22095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22095" title="50s">
50s

"This is an article about the years 50 AD to 59 AD. Sometimes, "the 50s" is used for the 1950s".






</doc>
<doc id="22096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22096" title="Volleyball">
Volleyball

Volleyball is a sport with six players on each team, separated by a net. Each team is allowed six substitution players. The game starts when the captain from each team decides which side of the court they will play on, by the toss of a coin, which also determines who will serve (hit) the ball first. The point of the game is to keep the ball in the air. The ball can be played with any part of the body, with a maximum of three strokes a team.

In 1895, William G. Morgan invented a new game called "Mintonette". However, when an observer named Alfred Halstead saw the game being played, he couldn't help but notice the vollying action used to get the ball over the net, so he decided to change the name to "volleyball". 

A player cannot hit the ball twice. A point is gained when a team plays the ball in the opposition's court and the ball is not defended, therefore it lands within the court. The ball must be served (hit) from outside the court, otherwise it will be regarded as a foul. The game is played in sets of 25 points (sometimes 21). The team that reaches 25 (or 21) points first, wins the set. Each game consists of 3-5 sets. The fifth set is played until 15 points.
A player usually wears kneepads to protect their knees from becoming bruised during dives for the "volleyball". In order to win the game, you must be ahead by two points or the game goes on until you win by 2 points.

The sports governing body is the FIVB.Digging is the ability to prevent the ball from touching one's court after a spike or attack, particularly a ball that is nearly touching the ground. Usually, the player is diving (throwing themselves towards the ground) to be the barrier to block the ball from hitting the court.In many aspects, this skill is similar to passing, or bumping: overhand dig and bump are also used to distinguish between defensive actions taken with fingertips or with joined arms. 
Some specific techniques are more common in digging than in passing. A player may sometimes perform a "dive", i.e., throw his or her body in the air with a forward movement in an attempt to save the ball, and land on his or her chest. When the player also slides his or her hand under a ball that is almost touching the court, this is called a "pancake". The pancake is frequently used in indoor volleyball. Besides being one of the best-known sports in the world, and being a favorite to millions of people, it is in the Olympics.


</doc>
<doc id="22097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22097" title="Twilight">
Twilight

Twilight means either dawn (in the morning) or dusk (in the evening).

In the morning, dawn is when it is not dark any more, and the light of the sun is just starting to appear.
In the evening, it is the other way around and that phenomenon is called dusk. The sun has disappeared, and darkness is setting in. Light fades away.

The following has been defined:
For all these definitions, the horizon is at the sea which is flat.



</doc>
<doc id="22100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22100" title="Great Depression">
Great Depression

The Great Depression was the great economic crisis that is said to have been started because of the U.S. stock-market crash in 1929. The prices on the Wall Street stock market fell a lot from October 24 to October 29, 1929. Many people lost their jobs. By 1932, 25–30% of people lost their jobs. They became homeless and poor. This ended the wealth of the Roaring Twenties. Many people think that the Great Depression started on Black Tuesday, but Black Tuesday was just an underlying problem that would help cause the Depression.

From 1929-1932, the depression worsened. Many suspect that increased taxes on American citizens and the increased tariffs (taxes on countries which trade with the United States) worsened it. Economist Milton Friedman said that the Great Depression was worsened because the Federal Reserve printed out less money than usual.

When the Great Depression started, Herbert Hoover was the president of the United States, and as a result, he was blamed for it. People voted for a new president in 1932. His name was Franklin D. Roosevelt. Roosevelt got the government to pass many new laws and programs to help people who were hurt by the Great Depression. These programs were called the New Deal. One of these programs was the Civilian Conservation Corps or CCC. The CCC put many young men to work in the outdoors. The men were paid 1 dollar a week to work, and they got free food and shelter. Another one of these programs was called Social Security. Social Security gave old people a small income so they had money for things they needed. The Great Depression was really bad, but with everyone's help, it would get better. Between 1939 and 1944, more people had jobs again because of World War II, and the Great Depression came to an end.

An important reason for the Great Depression was the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles made the United States very rich. Britain and France both gave large amounts of money to the U.S., and Germany had to pay a great amount of money for the damage they had done in World War I. However, it was this wealth that began the stock market crash.

Even after the Wall Street Crash of 1929, people still had hope. John D. Rockefeller said that "These are days when many are discouraged. In the 93 years of my life, depressions have come and gone. Prosperity (wealth) has always returned (come back) and will again." But soon the bad effects of the depression grew worse and worse. People lost jobs, money, and homes. There were reports that in Germany and the United States, there was great hunger, disease, and even starvation.

The Dust Bowl
Years and years of overgrazing combined with the effects of a drought caused the grass to disappear. With just topsoil exposed, high winds picked up the loose dirt and whirled it for miles. The dust storms destroyed everything in their paths, leaving farmers without their crops.


</doc>
<doc id="22103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22103" title="1291">
1291





</doc>
<doc id="22106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22106" title="Delhi">
Delhi

Delhi is a territory in India. It includes the country's capital New Delhi. It covers an area of 573 mi² or 1,484 km², it is bigger than Faroe Islands but smaller than Guadeloupe. Delhi is a part of the National Capital Region, which has 2.2 million residents. The governance of Delhi is like that of a state in India. It has its own legislature, high court and a council of executive ministers.
Delhi is on the banks of the Yamuna River. Historians have evidence that people have been living in this region since at least 6th century BCE. People also believe that the legendary city of Indraprastha was located here. This city has many remains and monuments of historic importance.


</doc>
<doc id="22107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22107" title="European Central Bank">
European Central Bank

The European Central Bank is the main bank of the European Union. The European Central Bank is in Frankfurt am Main. The main goal of the European Central Bank is to maintain price stability, in other words make sure inflation is below 2%. This is done by e.g. controlling the interest rates. It is also the only bank allowed to issue euro banknotes (€), used by 16 of the 27 member states of the European Union (EU).


</doc>
<doc id="22109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22109" title="Friendship">
Friendship

Friendship is having a good relationship with someone, called a friend. People in a friendship have respect and affection for each other. A friendship is different from a romantic relationship; friends do not necessarily love each other romantically.

Friends spend time together to talk or do activities they both enjoy. Friends can help each other by giving advice. Sometimes people tell their secrets to their friends. Usually friends have similar interests. For example, they might both like skateboarding or playing a musical instrument. Often, friends tease each other, but this is meant playfully.


</doc>
<doc id="22113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22113" title="Clitoris">
Clitoris

The clitoris is a female genital organ that includes erectile tissue, glands, muscles and ligaments, nerves, and blood vessels. Although the parts are placed differently, the clitoris is matching to the male penis. The clitoris functions to cause sexual pleasure and create orgasms as well as make a woman aroused.

During sexual arousal, the clitoris grows as its erectile tissue fills with blood until orgasm happens. Also during arousal, touching the clitoris and other sensitive areas of the female genitals makes a woman's vagina change shape and release a lubricant. The lubricant and change of shape makes it easier for a man to enter a woman and for sex to occur. Most of the clitoris is hidden inside the body and only a small part can be seen from the outside. Adding the outside and inside parts, the clitoris is similar in size to the penis. The clitoris and penis grow out of the same tissue in the womb. They share many similar parts.

The parts of the clitoris that can be seen from the outside stretch from the "clitoral junction", the point where the outer lips meet at the base of the pubic mound, to the "fork", where the lower edges of the inner lips meet below the vaginal opening. The outside parts include

 The parts of the clitoris hidden inside the body include erectile tissue, glands, muscles, blood vessels, and nerves. In both the clitoris and the penis, there are two types of erectile tissue: body of caverns ("corpus cavernosum") and spongy body ("corpus spongiosum"), which fill with blood during sexual response, causing an erection. The clitoral shaft is attached to the glans, just underneath the surface of the skin. The shaft is a round segment of spongy erectile tissue and is very sensitive like the glans. It feels like a hard ridge about one-half to one inch long, and it rises toward the pubic mound for a short distance, then bends sharply and divides, forming two slender legs which are also made of spongy tissue. The legs flare out like the wishbone of a chicken. In both women and men, the urethra (the tube through which we urinate), is surrounded by a ring of sponge.


</doc>
<doc id="22117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22117" title="Berlin Wall">
Berlin Wall

The Berlin Wall (German: "Berliner Mauer") separated the city of Berlin in Germany from 1961 to 1989. It separated the eastern half from the western half. Many people thought it was a symbol of the Cold War. The Berlin Wall was taken down on November 9, 1989. The Berlin Wall was about 168 km (104 miles) long. It was built to prevent people from escaping from the eastern half of Berlin.

After World War II ended, Germany was divided into four zones, one zone for each of the main Allied countries: France, the United Kingdom, the United States and the Soviet Union. Its capital Berlin was also divided into four zones, so that it was like an island inside the Soviet zone. In May 1949, the French, United Kingdom and US zones were made into West Germany ("Federal Republic of Germany", "Bundesrepublik Deutschland", "BRD"). The Soviet zone was made into East Germany in retaliation for the Western powers splitting Germany. East Germany (German Democratic Republic ("Deutsche Demokratische Republik", "DDR") was founded on October 7, 1949.

Austria was also divided into four zones. In 1955, a treaty was signed. The treaty said that the Allied forces must leave Austria. In return, the Austrian government promised to do certain things, like not form a territorial union with Germany, recognise certain minorities, amongst others. The whole of Europe was separated into a Soviet Union zone in the East and a US-dominated zone in the West. The splitting of Europe, Germany and especially Berlin into two political blocks was part of the Cold War between the United States of America and other western countries on one side and the Soviet Union and its allies on the other. The wartime Allied Forces split after their common enemy, Nazi Germany, (which was led by the dictator Adolf Hitler) was defeated in May 1945.

After Germany split into West and East Germany in 1949, 2.6 million East Germans left to go to "West Germany". In Berlin alone, 1.6 million people fled to the west. To stop this, on August 13, 1961, the Communist government of East Germany built a wall separating East and West Berlin.

The wall was built to keep the country's people in. But the Soviets and East German government said it was to keep capitalism out. They said that West Germany refused to recognize East Germany as an independent country because they wanted to take over North-East Germany just like Hitler took over Poland.

People still tried to escape even though the Berlin Wall was there. They used many methods to get around the guards and barbed wire on the Berlin Wall.

In the late 1980s, Mikhail Gorbachev said that the Soviet Union would not stop the people of Eastern and Middle Europe from changing their government by using military force. After he said that, several countries began to change the way they governed their people. Hungary opened its border and people from East Germany began moving to the west through Hungary. In October 1989 mass demonstrations against the government in East Germany began. The long-time leader, Erich Honecker, resigned and was replaced by Egon Krenz a few days later. Honecker had predicted in January 1989 that the wall would stand for a "hundred more years" if the conditions which had caused its construction did not change. This did not turn out to be true.

In November, 1989, the Central Committee of East Germany decided to make it easier for East Germans to pass through the wall. A mistake by the press officer meant the border was opened several hours before it should have been. Millions of East German citizens celebrated the opening of the wall. Many collected souvenirs with chisels and some television stations filmed people hitting the wall with sledge hammers.

This image of people in West Berlin hitting the wall is often said to be East Berliners breaking out. This is not true. The eastern side of the wall had no graffiti on it. All pictures of people chipping away at the wall show people hitting graffiti covered walls. Less than one year after the Berlin Wall was broken down, Germany again became one country.

In the 28 years of its existence, between 125 and 206 people were killed when trying to cross the Berlin Wall. At least 800 more people were killed outside Berlin, trying to cross from East Germany to the west.

The East Germans did not record all of the deaths, so the real number of how many people died may never be known.

Those people who were caught alive in an attempt to flee, had to go to jail for at least five years. The first victim of the Wall was Ida Siekmann. She was fatally injured after jumping out of the window of her apartment. She fell onto the pavement on the west side. The first victim of the Wall to be shot at was Günter Litfin. He was 24 years old and was shot by police, near the railway station of Berlin Friedrichstrasse, when he tried to get into the West. This was on 24 August, 1961, only eleven days after the border had been closed.

Peter Fechter bled to death in the "death strip", on 17 August, 1962. This led to a public outcry. American troops watched him, but could not help him. The East-German border policemen, who had wounded him, did not help him either.

In 1966, two children, aged ten and thirteen years, were killed in the border strip. This is unusual because the East German border police had orders to not shoot on pregnant women, children or mentally ill people.

The last death took place on 6 February, 1989, when Chris Gueffroy died trying to escape into West Berlin.

The wall was changed and added to several times. It was not really a wall, but a collection of walls and fences and other devices. This is what the "border fence" was made of, starting from the east, going west


The whole was done in an a zone of between 30 and 500 m wide. The official ("civil" border) began before the first fence. Entering the installation required a special permit. The real border was about one or two metres in front of the concrete wall, so that the whole of the wall complex was inside East Germany (only the East Berlin part of the wall was inside East Berlin).

The border between East Germany and West Germany was also heavily defended with fences and mines. East Germans needed a special permit to live close to the border.

After the Reunification of Germany in October 3, 1990, the Berlin Wall was demolished and taken away. A few sections of the wall remain; some of the sections became a museum.

The East Berlin people who guarded the wall (a special police corps), had the order to shoot if this was necessary to stop people fleeing. East German leaders such as Egon Krenz were arrested after German Reunification because guards were ordered to shoot to kill.

However, after the Wall was built, many people were no longer able to leave East Berlin using normal border posts. The only way they could do so was to race through the Wall or try to dig a tunnel underneath.

After the unification of Germany, border guards who had shot people were convicted by West German Courts. The judges said, that some of the laws of the border police (about shooting) were against human rights. They therefore should have refused to shoot.

The same was of course applied to those people who had shot border police on their flight.

Border guards who did shoot, and stop someone from fleeing could get a reward of up to 500 Marks. Some of those guards were sentenced after the unification.

The other choice was to not shoot, or to miss badly. Such guards risked losing their well-paid jobs.


Another strip of land was given to West Berlin. This strip was only the width of a road which joined West Berlin with a tiny exclave.





</doc>
<doc id="22118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22118" title="Łódź">
Łódź

Łódź is the third-largest city in Poland, with 776 000 inhabitants. It is in the Łódź Voivodship in the centre of the country. In Polish the name also means "boat". The mayor of Łódź is Hanna Zdanowska. 

The city is about 120 km south-west of Warsaw. In and around the city, there are some textile and electronics industries. Because of prolonged economic difficulties, there has been a decline in the population of the city. The city has a university and a film academy.

The first documents mentioning the city date from 1332. Łódź was awarded city rights (according to the Magdeburg law) in 1432. The Congress of Vienna decided in 1815 that the city should be part of Russia. Only in 1918 did the city fall back to Poland. 

There are two major football teams in Łódź: the first is called ŁKS Łódź and the second is Widzew Łódź.


</doc>
<doc id="22119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22119" title="Krakow">
Krakow

Kraków (Polish: "Kraków"; (pronounced: ); variant English spelling Cracow; in full Royal Capital City of Krakow, Polish: Królewskie Stołeczne Miasto Kraków) is the one of the oldest and largest cities in Poland. In 2004 in Kraków lived 760,000 people. It is on the Vistula river. Krakow is the capital of Lesser Poland Voivodship ("województwo małopolskie"); before that it was the capital of Kraków Voivodship (since 14th century). 

During the mid-early 19th century, Krakow became an independent city-state, under the name of "The Free, Independent and Strictly Neutral City of Krakow". However, it was annexed by Austria-Hungary in 1846.

The current mayor of Krakow is Jacek Majchrowski.

Kraków is twinned, or maintains close relations with:


</doc>
<doc id="22121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22121" title="Portland, Oregon">
Portland, Oregon

Portland is the largest city in the U.S. state of Oregon. About 538,544 people live in the city of Portland, and about 1,927,881 people live in the city's metropolitan area. It is found in the north part of the state, where the Willamette River meets the Columbia River. Portland has the second most people of any city in the Northwest United States, after the city of Seattle.

Portland has many nicknames. One of these is "The City of Roses," because roses grow well there. Some other nicknames of Portland are "Stumptown" (from the fact that Portland was built over a forest), "Puddletown" (from the fact that it often rains in Portland), and "Bridgetown" (from the fact that there are many bridges that cross the Willamette River in Portland).

Many things are from Portland. Some of these things are Powell's Books, Beverly Cleary (and some of her most popular fictional characters, Henry Huggins and Ramona Quimby, which also have statues in the city's "Beverly Cleary Sculpture Garden for Children"), and the Portland Trail Blazers basketball team.


</doc>
<doc id="22126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22126" title="Frame of reference">
Frame of reference

A frame of reference is how one knows if an object is moving. For example, when you see a ball roll down a street, you can tell the ball is moving because the frame of reference is the streets, whatever may be on the side of the roads or the Earth. All of these are a frame of reference. 

The most common frame of reference is Earth itself, even though it moves.


</doc>
<doc id="22130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22130" title="Broadway">
Broadway

Broadway is a main street in New York City, USA. It is a center of entertainment and is famous for its many stage plays. This street leads through many boroughs until it comes to Albany the capital of New York. Broadway also has many theatres and cinemas with many good shows like the Harlem Gospel Singers.
Broadway is 20.6 miles long.


</doc>
<doc id="22138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22138" title="Schrödinger equation">
Schrödinger equation

The Schrödinger equation is a mathematical formula that physicists use to study quantum mechanics. It is a mathematical equation that was thought of by Erwin Schrödinger in 1925. It shows how particles act in lots of time based situations. It can predict the position and velocity of a particle (where it is and how fast it is moving) at a certain time. It cannot be very accurate, however, because of the uncertainty principle.

It uses something called a wavefunction to make questions about how the particle acts. The wavefunction is a picture of how this particle acts with time and describes the particle as fully as possible.

For one particle that only moves in one direction other than time, the Schrödinger equation looks like:

formula_1
where:


</doc>
<doc id="22150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22150" title="Nutmeg">
Nutmeg

Nutmeg is a genus of an evergreen trees. They are found in tropical Southeast Asia and Australia. From the fruit of the tree, two spices are made:


</doc>
<doc id="22153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22153" title="Run (island)">
Run (island)

Pulau Run is an island in Indonesia. It is one of the smallest Islands of the Banda Islands . It is about 3 km long and less than 1 km wide.

It used to be of great importance, because of the value of the spices nutmeg and "mace". Both spices are from the same tree. The trees were only grown on the Banda Islands. During the history of the spice trade sailors of the British East India Company of the second expedition of James Lancaster, John Davis and John Middleton who stayed in Bantam on Java first reached the Island in 1603. They made good contacts with the people who lived there.

Two wars were fought over the extremely costly spices. 

The Treaty of Westminster ended the First Anglo-Dutch War of 1652–1654. According to the treaty, Run should have been returned to England. The first attempt in 1660 failed due to formal constraints by the Dutch; after the second in 1665 the English traders were expelled in the same year and the Dutch destroyed the nutmeg trees.

After the second Anglo-Dutch War of 1665–1667 England and the United Provinces of the Netherlands agreed in the Treaty of Breda to the status quo: The English kept the island of Manhattan which the Duke of York (the future Charles II), had occupied illegally in 1664 and renamed from New Amsterdam to New York and Run was officially given to the Dutch.
Even though the Dutch monopoly on nutmeg and mace was destroyed by the transfer of nutmeg trees to Ceylon, Singapore and other British colonies in 1817 after the capture of the main Island Bandalontor in 1810 by Captain Cole leading to the decline of the Dutch supremacy in the spice trade, there are still nutmeg trees growing on Run today.



</doc>
<doc id="22156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22156" title="Shinty">
Shinty

Shinty a traditional game now mainly played in the Scottish Highlands. It involves 2 teams of twelve players using a stick (known as a "caman" from Scottish Gaelic) to put a ball in the opposing team's net.

It was once played over all Scotland but is now played mostly in the Scottish Highlands and Highland communities in the big Scottish cities. It is also played in universities and in America by enthusiasts.

The sport's rules and regulations are decided by the Camanachd Association.

It has a common ancestor with the Irish game of hurling and hurlers and shinty players sometimes hold internationals.



</doc>
<doc id="22160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22160" title="1229">
1229



</doc>
<doc id="22162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22162" title="1626">
1626



</doc>
<doc id="22163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22163" title="1399">
1399



</doc>
<doc id="22164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22164" title="54">
54

54 is a year in the 1st century.


</doc>
<doc id="22165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22165" title="48">
48

48 is a year in the 1st century.


</doc>
<doc id="22166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22166" title="1244">
1244


</doc>
<doc id="22167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22167" title="1253">
1253



</doc>
<doc id="22168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22168" title="1627">
1627




</doc>
<doc id="22169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22169" title="1645">
1645




</doc>
<doc id="22170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22170" title="1072">
1072


</doc>
<doc id="22171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22171" title="1263">
1263



</doc>
<doc id="22172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22172" title="1264">
1264




</doc>
<doc id="22173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22173" title="1641">
1641


</doc>
<doc id="22174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22174" title="1680">
1680

Year 1680 was a leap year that started on a Monday when using the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="22175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22175" title="814">
814





</doc>
<doc id="22183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22183" title="Wikipedia:Core article">
Wikipedia:Core article

A Core article on Simple English Wikipedia is an article that describes a topic that is of general importance. Excellent examples of Core articles can be found on the .

Until we grow into a large encyclopedia with entries on all Core articles, we strongly encourage editors to focus on core articles, since these articles are of more general importance. This fits with the main purpose of Simple English Wikipedia, as we work towards creating high-quality articles of general interest in easy-to-read language. Simple English Wikipedia is not necessarily wanted to be as complete as the English Wikipedia or other Wikipedias, where a complete and detailed article would be more appropriate.

Some ways to help decide whether a subject is "Core" would be to consider:

As a general rule, start by adding new information to existing articles which cover the general subject area. Only move on to more specific aspects when the general article becomes too large or complicated. Many times, a non-Core article can be instead simply made into a redirect to a more general topic.

Here are some examples of likely non-Core subjects to avoid:

</doc>
<doc id="22206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22206" title="Manx">
Manx

The word Manx could mean many things related to the Isle of Man:



</doc>
<doc id="22207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22207" title="Hierarchy">
Hierarchy

A hierarchy (in Greek: Ιεραρχία; this comes from "ιερός"-hieros, sacred, and "άρχω"-arkho, rule) is a way of ranking and organizing things or people. Beneath the top of the hierarchy, each part of it is below some other part.

This turns out to be like a pyramid. There is a single person or thing at the top level. 

An example with people would be the structure of a company. There is the top manager, and there are a few levels of middle and lower management. At the bottom are the common workers. Another example would be an army that might have a general, followed by colonels, corporals, and sergeants, then privates. 

In these examples, people who are higher up have more authority and power than people below them.



</doc>
<doc id="22214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22214" title="Sultan">
Sultan

Sultan is a name for some Islamic rulers or monarch. The wife of a sultan is called a sultana.

The word sultan was an Arabic language noun meaning "strength", "authority", or "rulership". Later, it came to be used as the title of certain Muslim rulers who claimed full sovereignty. They did not have to take orders from any higher ruler, without claiming the overall caliphate. 

The dynasty and lands ruled by the Sultan is called a Sultanate.


</doc>
<doc id="22215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22215" title="States and territories of India">
States and territories of India

India is divided into twenty-eight states, six union territories and the National Capital Territory.





</doc>
<doc id="22220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22220" title="Finnish language">
Finnish language

The Finnish language is a Finno-Ugric language, a group of languages belonging to the Uralic language family. It is one of the two official languages of Finland. It is also an official minority language in Sweden. Finnish is one of the four national languages of Europe that is not an Indo-European language. The other three are Estonian and Hungarian, which are also Uralic languages, and Basque.

The Finnish grammar and most Finnish words are very different from those in other European languages, because Finnish is not an Indo-European language. The two other national languages that are Uralic languages as Finnish are Estonian and Hungarian. Estonian and Finnish are very close to each other, and Estonians and Finns usually may understand each other. Even though Finnish and Hungarian are related languages, they do not look or sound similar. The Finnish and Hungarian languages separated a long time ago, and each language developed its own vocabulary. People who can speak Finnish cannot understand Hungarian without extra study, and Hungarians cannot understand Finnish. However, there are some basic words that are very similar, for example: 'hand' (Finnish 'käsi' vs. Hungarian 'kéz') 'to go' (Finnish 'mennä' vs. Hungarian 'menni'), 'fish' (Finnish 'kala' vs. Hungarian 'hal'.

Finnish is a synthetic and an agglutinative language. This means that words in Finnish have a stem called "body", and many parts inside them that make up meaning. Finnish is similar in this respect as Japanese language and Turkish language and Latin language. In Finnish there are 15 cases. A case is an ending added to a word that helps describe its purpose in the sentence. 

Finnish is pronounced the way it is spelt. The pronunciation of most letters is similar to English. However:



</doc>
<doc id="22224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22224" title="Sleep">
Sleep

Sleep is a state of rest, which happens in animals, including humans. Animals that sleep are in an unconscious state, or mostly so. Most of the muscles that animals can control on purpose are inactive. Animals that are asleep do not react to stimuli as fast as those that are awake. They can wake up from sleep more easily than from hibernation or coma. All mammals and birds, and many reptiles, amphibians, and fish, sleep. In humans, other mammals, and most other animals that were studied, sleeping regularly is essential for survival.

The purpose of sleep is not fully known, and it is still studied today. We do know for sure, though, that sleep is necessary to most animals for survival. Not having enough sleep can even be used for torture.

A person sleeps when he or she is not awake. Usually, this is during the night. During the day, most people are awake. They work, go to school or university, or do other things. Many people sleep for a short time in the early afternoon for a quick rest. This is called a nap.

The word "sleep" comes from the old Old Germanic verbs for sleep. In Old and Middle High German it was called "SLAF". The original meaning of the word was "to slap", which was related to the word for "flabby" (not hard or firm).

Many words related to "sleep" have very different meanings, though. For example, "sleep" was also used to mean death, so that "putting an animal to sleep" meant to kill the animal without pain. "Sleep with someone" can also have a sexual meaning.

Generally, the reason for sleep is that the brain has work to do during sleep. The details are not fully understood, but it is important to get enough sleep for the body and the brain to be healthy and work properly. Usually animals (and people) sleep at periodic intervals, such as once a day. Certain animals send out signals to the others that they will soon go to sleep. Yawning is such a signal.

Both humans and many animals sleep about once a day. Some animals, such as cats, sleep many times a day for short periods.

When people sleep they often have dreams. Probably some animals do, too.

Not only people sleep, all mammals and birds, and most fish, reptiles and other animals do, too.

In mammals and birds, sleep can be divided into two categories. In one of them, the eyes move rapidly. It is called REM-sleep (from "rapid eye movement"). Most dreams take place in this phase. REM-sleep occurs normally at intervals throughout the night, and the periods of REM-sleep increase in length in the second half of the night. REM-sleep was first discovered in 1952-53.

The other category, where this movement of the eyes does not happen, is called NREM-sleep (Non-REM sleep). Usually, dreams do not occur during this time. There are three or four stages of NREM-sleep. Stage I is just barely sleeping, or dozing. Stage II is also light sleep. Normally, in adult humans, about half of the time spent asleep is spent in light sleep. Stages III and IV are called deep sleep. Deep sleep is necessary for growth and healing. It can be quite difficult to awaken someone who is in stage III or stage IV sleep. Sometimes stages III and IV are combined and called stage III.

Adult humans normally sleep in cycles of 90 to 110 minutes each. The night's sleep can be 4 or 5 of these cycles. Each cycle includes, in this order: stage I, stage II, stage III (IV), stage II and REM.

The timing of sleep and the amount of it are both important. Both are different for different people. Some adults sleep best from 22:00 to 05:00 or 06:00 or 07:00. Some sleep best from midnight to seven or eight. These variations are normal.

How much sleep is enough also depends on age. Children need more sleep than adults. Newborn babies sleep about 18 hours per day. Small babies sleep many times a day; human babies do not develop circadian rhythms before they are 3 - 4 months old. At the age of 1 year, they sleep for about 14 hours. 

A nine-year-old should sleep about 9-10 hours per day and teenagers, too, need that much sleep. Adults who sleep less than about 8 hours a day perform worse than those who sleep that long. 
People may have trouble going to sleep, staying asleep or getting enough sleep. This usually means that they are too sleepy in the daytime.

There are many things that influence sleep. Also some substances, called stimulants - coffee is such an example - can cause poor sleep. When people have just eaten something, the body is busy digesting. This can cause poor sleep, too. Worrying and stress can cause poor sleep. 

There are many diseases that cause poor sleep. Fever can lead to bad dreams. Poor sleep can be a side effect of some medications. 

Sleep disorders directly influence how a person sleeps. Examples of sleep disorders are narcolepsy, sleep apnea and circadian rhythm sleep disorders.

Sleep specialists - doctors specialised in sleeping problems - often suggest better sleep hygiene to people with sleeping problems. Sleep hygiene means things people can try, such as 



</doc>
<doc id="22242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22242" title="Republic of Macedonia">
Republic of Macedonia

Republic of Macedonia (Macedonian: "Република Македонија" - "Republika Makedonija") is an independent state on the Balkan peninsula in southeastern Europe. The country borders Serbia to the north, Albania to the west, Greece to the south, and Bulgaria to the east. The country's currency is the Macedonian Denar (MKD).

Greece and the Republic of Macedonia are arguing over the name Macedonia. United Nations calls the Republic of Macedonia, "the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" (FYROM). The north and northeast part of Greece has been called Macedonia for ages and officially since 1912, just like the southeast county of England Kent has been called Kent for a long time. 'FYROM' is also used by the United Nations and NATO as well as many other international organisations. But, many countries now call the country 'Republic of Macedonia'. The United Kingdom, for example, uses Republic of Macedonia in the diplomatic list .
The capital is Skopje, with more than 500,000 residents. It has many smaller cities. Some important ones are Bitola, Prilep, Tetovo, Kumanovo, Ohrid, Veles, Stip, and Strumica.

The Republic of Macedonia is often called "a land of lakes and mountains". There are more than 50 large lakes and sixteen mountains higher than 2000 meters above sea level. 

The country is a member of the United Nations and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Since December 2005, it is a candidate for joining the European Union. The Republic of Macedonia is also a partner and candidate member of NATO but Greece blocked Macedonia's entry into NATO until the name dispute between the two countries is solved.

The language spoken by the majority of the population is Macedonian. Albanian is also spoken by the Albanian minority (15%) living in the country. 

What is now Macedonia used to be a state called Socialist Republic of Macedonia in the southern part of the country of Yugoslavia. When that country broke up in 1991, Macedonia became independent.
Over time the territory which today is the Republic of Macedonia was ruled by a many different states and former empire.

Republic of Macedonia is a democratic country with a parliament.



</doc>
<doc id="22248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22248" title="Anorexia nervosa">
Anorexia nervosa

Anorexia nervosa (usually just called anorexia) is an eating disorder. People with anorexia think that they are fat, or desperately fear becoming fat even if they are very skinny. To try to lose weight, anorexics do not eat enough. When they do eat, they do not eat the amount of food their body needs, in an effort to avoid gaining weight. This causes them to lose too much weight too quickly. This is very harmful to a person's body.

Doctors use the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders to make a medical diagnosis and decide if a person has anorexia or not. Four signs of anorexia are listed in the manual. People do not have to show all four signs for the doctor to decide that they have anorexia.





</doc>
<doc id="22249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22249" title="Madness">
Madness

Madness (or Insanity) is a word people use to describe different diseases of the mind. Usually, such people need to be cared for by specially trained personnel. It can also refer to anger. But some people do not think it is insane or mad.

People who are mad (or insane) usually have a hard time telling right from wrong. In most countries, being able to tell if something is wrong is the basis for criminal law. Mad people can therefore not commit crimes in such countries.

An animal can also be called mad, if that animal suffers from rabies.


</doc>
<doc id="22251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22251" title="Rabies">
Rabies

Rabies is a viral zoonotic disease that causes acute encephalitis. 

Usually, people (and animals) die from it (it is fatal). There is no cure for it. People who are treated soon after becoming infected have a chance to survive.

The disease is transmitted through the saliva 
and the blood. The usual form of getting is a bite of a rabid mammal. Pets, like dogs need to be vaccinated against it, in most countries.

There is no cure for Rabies. There is a vaccine against it. The vaccine was first developed by Louis Pasteur and Pierre Paul Émile Roux in 1885. This vaccine used a live virus grown in rabbits, and weakened (through drying it). The first person to be vaccinated was Joseph Meister (a 9 year old boy who had been bitten by a dog). Vaccines similar to this are still used today, but other vaccines (growing the virus using cell cultures) are more frequent.

There is also a form of treatment that can be done once a person has been bitten. It needs to be done within 6 days of being bitten. It starts with washing the wound. This is done to reduce the number of virus particles that enter the body. Often patients are given one dose of immunoglobulin and a certain number of vaccines, over a determined period of time, usually a month.





</doc>
<doc id="22252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22252" title="Tirana">
Tirana

Tirana (Albanian: "Tiranë" or "Tirana") is the capital city of Republic of Albania. It is the largest city in that country. The population of the city is estimated at 353,400 people (2003). Other people think there may be up to 1 million people who live in the city. Tirana was founded in 1614. It became Albania's capital city in 1920.


</doc>
<doc id="22253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22253" title="John Forbes Nash, Jr.">
John Forbes Nash, Jr.

John Forbes Nash Jr. (born June 13, 1928) is an American mathematician who works in game theory and differential geometry. He shared the 1994 Memorial Prize in Economics with two other game theorists, Reinhard Selten and John Harsanyi.

The winner of a Westinghouse scholarship, he attended the Carnegie Institute of Technology, where he received both his bachelor's degree and his master's degree in 1948. From Pittsburgh he went to Princeton University where he worked on his equilibrium theory. He received a Ph.D. in 1950 with a dissertation on non-cooperative games. The thesis, which was written under the supervision of Albert W. Tucker, contained the definition and properties of what would later be called the Nash equilibrium. His studies on this subject led to three articles:

John Nash also did important work in the area of manifolds (complex spatial structures):

This work led to "Nash embedding theorem".."Two real algebraic manifolds are equivalent if and only if they are analytically homeomorphic." 

He is best known in popular culture as the subject of the Hollywood movie, "A Beautiful Mind", about his mathematical genius and his struggles with mental illness.



</doc>
<doc id="22254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22254" title="John Nash">
John Nash

John Nash may mean



</doc>
<doc id="22255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22255" title="Calisthenics">
Calisthenics

Calisthenics is a series of exercises used to develop strength, power and balance or a repeated rhythmical exercise that uses the weight of the body as resistance or the systematic exercises for attaining strength-gracefulness or the practice of calisthenic exercises.

The name calisthenics is Greek in origin, a combination of the words 'beauty' and 'strength'.

Calisthenics is recommended for general good health, light exercises designed to promote general physical fitness.



</doc>
<doc id="22265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22265" title="Mute">
Mute

Mute is a lack of sound. A person that can not speak using sound is called a "mute". It is a type of speech disorder.

A person who chooses not to speak can also be said to be mute.


</doc>
<doc id="22275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22275" title="Wooden spoon">
Wooden spoon

A wooden spoon is a spoon that can be made from wood. Wooden spoons are used for mixing food. Wooden spoon is also a term for last place in a sporting contest.



</doc>
<doc id="22277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22277" title="Table tennis">
Table tennis

Table tennis, also known as Ping Pong (a trademarked name), is one of the most popular sports in the world, with players in many countries. It is played by two or four people in a table. To play this game, people use a bat and a small ball.




</doc>
<doc id="22287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22287" title="MediaWiki:Anoneditwarning">
MediaWiki:Anoneditwarning


</doc>
<doc id="22318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22318" title="Template:Wikivar">
Template:Wikivar

[ purge] [ rev-ID : ]   t: wikt: – $wgMagicWordsEn at CVS Language.php mail , 


</doc>
<doc id="22319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22319" title="Template:DIRMARK">
Template:DIRMARK

‎


</doc>
<doc id="22320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22320" title="Nayarit">
Nayarit

Nayarit is a middle sized Mexican state which is located in the West coast of Mexico (in the Pacific Ocean shore).
Native people from Nayarit are called Nayaritas (singular: Nayarita).


</doc>
<doc id="22323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22323" title="Mindanao">
Mindanao

Mindanao is one of the three main island groups in the Philippines.

It may also refer to the second largest island in the Philippines; the main island in the group.


</doc>
<doc id="22324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22324" title="Phylum">
Phylum

A phylum (plural: phyla) is the second highest rank used in the biological taxonomy of all organisms. The highest rank is kingdom. 

Botanists usually use the word "division" instead of "phylum".

Phylum is Phillip in the mnemonic (a saying to help a person remember something), "King Phillip Came Over For Great Spaghetti", "King Phillip Came Over From Great Spain", "King Phillip Came Over For Gellato Soup", or "King Philip Came Over From Greece Singing".



</doc>
<doc id="22326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326" title="Knuckle">
Knuckle

A knuckle, in anatomy, is where two bones join in the hands or feet. When talking about humans, knuckles most often refer to the joints in the fingers.

Animal knuckles, such as "pig knuckles" are sometimes sold as food.


</doc>
<doc id="22332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22332" title="Conduction">
Conduction

Conduction in science is when energy moves from one place to another place. Heat and electricity are two kinds of energy that move by conduction. Something that energy can easily move through is a good conductor. Metal is a good conductor. An insulator is a bad conductor. Energy can not move quickly through an insulator. Plastics are one kind of insulator.

A pan of hot soup is taken off the oven and put on a table. The area of the table under the pot gets hot. Heat from the pot moved to the table top by conduction.



</doc>
<doc id="22333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22333" title="Category:Business">
Category:Business


</doc>
<doc id="22334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22334" title="Royal family">
Royal family

A royal family is the family of a monarch (king or queen of a country). Or someone who is related to a queen, king or a monarch.


</doc>
<doc id="22340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22340" title="General election">
General election

A general election is an election, where all members of a country's parliament are up for election.

United Kingdom 2005 general election


</doc>
<doc id="22341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22341" title="United Kingdom 2005 general election">
United Kingdom 2005 general election

The 2005 United Kingdom General Election was an election held on May 5, 2005 to elect 646 members to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. The three main candidates to become Prime Minister of the United Kingdom are shown to the right. 

The election resulted in the Labour Party and it's leader Tony Blair winning a majority in the House of Commons for the third time in a row. The Labour Party did lose 47 of their seats in parliament and the amount of votes they got dropped by 5.5% from the 2001 General Election. Many people believe the Labour Party lost support because of Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair's unpopular decision to send troops to Iraq in 2003.

The final results of the election were:


The constituencies of Blaenau Gwent and Wyre Forest elected Independent candidates. The seat of Glasgow East was won by the Speaker of the House of Commons Michael Martin, who is not considered to be of any political party.

The next election was held on May 6, 2010. See United Kingdom general election, 2010

MPs elected in the UK general election, 2005


</doc>
<doc id="22343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22343" title="Dover">
Dover

Dover can refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="22350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22350" title="Milenko Stefanovic">
Milenko Stefanovic

Milenko Stefanović (born February 19, 1930 in Belgrade, Serbia, then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia) is the most famous Serbian classical and jazz clarinet player – soloist, former Principal Clarinetist of the Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra and Professor at the Josip Slavenski School of Music, University of Pristina and University of the Arts in Belgrade. 

Stefanovic began his music study at the age of five. He graduated and completed his postgraduate studies from the Belgrade Conservatory. His major teacher was Professor Bruno Brun, the founder of modern Serbian school of clarinet playing. Additionally, he studied chamber music and orchestral playing in Salzburg, Austria, in the class of Igor Markevich, Erich Leinsdorf and Fernand Oubradous.

Stefanovic was a top-prize winner or finalist in the major Yugoslavian and international competitions, including the competitions in Sarajevo (1952), Skopje (1954), Ljubljana (1956), Moscow (1957), Munich (1957), Geneva (1957) and Prague (1959). Additionally, he was honored with the Award of the Yugoslavian Radio-Television (Ohrid, 1972), awards of the City of Belgrade for the best concert in the previous concert season (1976, 1981, 1986), as well as with 7th July Award (1962), the state’s highest award for the arts. In 2007, upon recommendation of the Expert Committee of the Ministry of Culture, he was awarded Special Acknowledgement for the Highest Contribution to the National Culture of the Republic of Serbia. In 2010 the Association of Musical Artists of Serbia awarded him with The Lifetime Achievement Award. 

During his long career, Stefanovic performed throughout Europe, Africa and North America. Stefanovic recorded for the leading radio and television stations in the country and abroad: United Kingdom, Italy, France, USSR, Germany, etc. As a soloist, member of various chamber groups and orchestras, he collaborated with distinguished Yugoslavian and international artists, including: Herbert von Karajan, Lorin Maazel, Leopold Stokowski, Kirill Kondrashin, Bernard Keeffe, Oivin Fjeldstad, Francesco Mander, Jerzy Katlewicz, Jovan Sajnovic, Uros Lajovic, Anton Kolar, Anton Nanut, Petr Vronsky, Zbigniew Chwedczuk, Oskar Danon, Dusan Skovran, Josef Daniel, Zivojin Zdravkovic, Julio Maric, Franc Klinar, Roman Skrepek, Aleksandar Pavlovic, Vanco Cavdarski, Bogo Leskovic, Djura Jaksic, Mladen Jagust, Aleksandar Lekovski, Bogdan Babic, Vojislav Simic, Eric Hope, Evgeni Korolyov, Michel Dussault, Andreja Preger, Viktor Jakovcic, Freddy Dosek, Zorica Dimitrijevic-Stosic, Mirjana Krsljanin, The Zagreb Soloists, The Belgrade Trio, The Serbian String Quartet, The Zagreb Quartet and many others. 

He was one of the few artists honored to perform Copland’s Clarinet Concerto under the baton of Maestro Aaron Copland (1961). 

He was a long-time principal clarinetist of the Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra (1954-1976). 

Stefanovic also played jazz – as a soloist and member of the Belgrade Jazz Trio and Markicevic Quintet.

He has a number of personally dedicated clarinet works by prominent Yugoslavian composers: Dejan Despic, Aleksandar Obradovic, Petar Bergamo, Dusan Radic, Petar Ozgijan, Miodrag Ilic. 

Stefanovic was the chair of the committee in numerous Yugoslavian and international competitions. 

Stefanovic wrote numerous jazz compositions and some film music.

He taught at the Josip Slavenski School of Music, University of Pristina and University of the Arts in Belgrade. His former students hold teaching positions in music schools and universities and play in orchestras in Europe, Asia, Australia and North America. Stefanovic wrote several textbooks for the clarinet students.

He served as the Vice-Chancellor and member of the Board of Trustees of the University of the Arts in Belgrade. 

Stefanovic is an honorary member and former president of the Association of Musical Artists of Serbia. 



</doc>
<doc id="22353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22353" title="Category:Profanity">
Category:Profanity


</doc>
<doc id="22358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22358" title="Flash memory">
Flash memory

Flash memory is a memory storage device for computers and electronics. It is most often used in devices like digital cameras, USB flash drives, and video games. It is quite similar to EEPROM.

Flash memory is different from RAM because RAM is volatile (not permanent). When power is turned off, RAM loses all its data. Flash can keep its data intact, with no power at all. A hard drive also is permanent (non-volatile) storage, but it is bulky and fragile. Flash memory is much slower than RAM or hard drives. But it is great for small electronics because it is small and it has no moving parts.

The main weakness of flash memory is the number of times that data can be written to it. Data can be read from flash as many times as desired, but after a certain number of "write" operations, it will stop working. Most flash devices are designed for about 100,000 - 1,000,000 write operations (or "write cycles").

EEPROM has the same limitation that flash does: it can only survive about 100,000 write cycles. But it is more expensive than flash, so it is usually not used for storage greater than 128kB. The main difference between EEPROM and flash memory is that EEPROM can "write" to any byte of memory, at any time. Flash memory can only write to an entire chunk, or "sector", of memory at a time. That means that if the user wants to change only one byte, flash must also re-write all the bytes in that sector. This means that flash memory can wear out faster than EEPROM.



</doc>
<doc id="22359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22359" title="Bottrop">
Bottrop

Bottrop is a city in west central Germany, on the Rhine-Herne Canal, in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia (Nordrhein-Westfalen). Bottrop is in the Ruhr industrial area, It is next to Essen, Oberhausen, Gladbeck and Dorsten. The city had been a coal-mining and rail center. There are factories producing coal-tar derivatives, chemicals, textiles, and machinery. The population is currently 119,655. Bottrop grew as a mining center beginning in the 1860s and was chartered as a city in 1921. In 1975 it was put together with the unification with the neighbor communities of Gladbeck and Kirchhellen, but Gladbeck left in 1976.

The place is first heard of in 1150, as "Borthorpe". This name means "village on the hillside". In the year 1423, Bottrop is awarded the status of a market town. In 1786 the first cotton mill opens. Coal mining starts in 1856. The city gets town privileges in 1919. In 1953, the population passed 100.000 people for the first time.




</doc>
<doc id="22366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22366" title="Puducherry">
Puducherry

Puducherry, which used to be called Pondicherry is a Union territory of India. Pondicherry is divided into four separate parts: Pondicherry, Karaikal, Yanam, and Mahé. 

These four areas are under one name because they were all once ruled by the French. Chandannagar, the fifth former French colony located 30 kilometers north of Kolkata, in West Bengal, India, is now outside this unconnected territory.

When India took control of them, they took them in as one territory. Pondicherry is going through a name change to Puduchery, which means "new village" in the local language. It covers an area of 183 mi² or 474 km², it is bigger than Andorra but smaller than Saint Lucia.


</doc>
<doc id="22368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22368" title="New York Yankees">
New York Yankees

The New York Yankees are a Major League Baseball team from New York City. They have won 27 World Series championships to date, more than any other team in the Major Leagues. From 1923 to 2008, the Yankees home stadium had been Yankee Stadium. Currently, they are playing at their new Yankee Stadium.

The word "Yankee" (slang for "American") and the "Uncle Sam" top hat, make up part of what they are all about. As with the more common use of the term "Yankee", the team name is more often called "the Yanks". Their most commonly used "unofficial" nickname is "the Bronx Bombers", or simply "the Bombers". This nickname was given to them by the press a long time ago. It refers to their ability to hit home runs a lot (a home run is sometimes called a "bomb"). A less used nickname is "the Pinstripers", for their well-known uniform style. 

The Yankees' current team captain is their shortstop, Derek Jeter.

The New York Yankees' main rival is the Boston Red Sox.



</doc>
<doc id="22369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22369" title="1048">
1048



</doc>
<doc id="22370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22370" title="Terry Pratchett">
Terry Pratchett

Sir Terry Pratchett OBE (Terence David John Pratchett, born 28 April 1948, in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, England) is an English author. He is known for his fantasy works, including the famous "Discworld" series. His first novel, "The Carpet People", was published in 1971. He was the UK's best-selling author of the 1990s.



</doc>
<doc id="22371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22371" title="1218">
1218


</doc>
<doc id="22372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22372" title="1282">
1282





</doc>
<doc id="22373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22373" title="Critic">
Critic

A critic is a person who reviews things like movies, books, and food to see if they are any good and if other people would like them. They write reviews about what they have seen or read.

Critics may write about art, music, theatre, books, or anything in which good or bad is a matter of personal opinion.

Criticism usually means saying what is wrong with something. Critics write criticisms in their reviews. They may say good or bad things about what they are reviewing.

The word 'criticism' is often used in general life when someone 'criticizes' someone else (says that what they are doing or have done is not good'). Criticism does not have to be unkind, it can be given in a helpful way. For example, an adjudicator in a music competition may give helpful criticism ('constructive criticism') to the performers so that they can learn from the experience and make their playing better.

The adjective critical usually means criticism that can hurt. 
'Critical' also has a different meaning: Someone who is 'critically injured' is in danger of dying from their injuries. A 'critical moment' may be a moment which will show whether something is going to work or not.


</doc>
<doc id="22375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22375" title="Søren Kierkegaard">
Søren Kierkegaard

Søren Aabye Kierkegaard (5 May, 1813 – 11 November, 1855), a 19th century Danish philosopher and theologian, is usually thought of as the first existentialist philosopher. 

He wrote many philosophical books about faith, existence, emotions, and feelings. He disliked people who tried to make Christianity political and people who tried to limit the single individual in favour of groups of many people. Many people have found his works interesting and have said that they were great works of philosophy. Ludwig Wittgenstein, a 20th century philosopher, thought Kierkegaard was "by far, the most profound thinker of the nineteenth century" (, ).

He was born in Copenhagen, Denmark. He attended Copenhagen University and earned his master's degree in 1841. During this time, he met and fell in love with Regine Olsen in 1837. Although they were engaged for a time, Kierkegaard ended the engagement in 1841.

After breaking up with Regine, he spent much of his time writing book after book, in a highly dramatic yet subtle way. He also wrote some of his works using pen names, or pseudonyms. Although his works were not very popular during his lifetime, after his death, his works grew in popularity and became highly influential in the 20th and 21st centuries.

"Here are some works by Kierkegaard, with the Danish title on the right"


</doc>
<doc id="22384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22384" title="1667">
1667


</doc>
<doc id="22386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22386" title="Despotism">
Despotism

Despotism is a form of government that is controlled by one person or a small group of people. The person who controls the state is called a "despot". The despot has complete control of the state, like a dictator or tyrant. In history, the pharaohs of Egypt were despots. The word "despot" is thought to come from the Ancient Greek word "despotes", which means "the master".


</doc>
<doc id="22387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22387" title="Lakshadweep">
Lakshadweep

Lakhadweep are group of islands in the Arabian Sea. They belong to India and their capital is Kavaratti. It covers an area of 11 mi² or 28 km², it is bigger than Tuvalu but smaller than Norfolk Island.


</doc>
<doc id="22388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22388" title="Daman and Diu">
Daman and Diu

Daman and Diu is a territory in India. It covers an area of 50 mi² or 130 km², it is bigger than Saint Helena but smaller than Wallis and Futuna.


</doc>
<doc id="22401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22401" title="Riding helmet">
Riding helmet

A riding helmet, sometimes called a horse riding helmet, is a type of hat (cover for the head) made for people who ride horses. It is important to wear a riding helmet when riding. It is easy for a person to fall off a horse and hit his or her head. Riding helmets keep the rider of a horse from being hurt. Horses can accidentally step on a person who has fallen to the ground.

Helmets should be worn by all riders, but are most often worn by English style riders.


</doc>
<doc id="22402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22402" title="Ketchup">
Ketchup

Ketchup is a kind of thick, liquid sauce. It is made from tomatoes, so it is sometimes called tomato sauce. Usually it is used to add flavour to food. Some people like to eat sausages, burgers, hotdogs or fishsticks with ketchup. Ketchup tastes very unlike the real tomato.

Although today's ketchup is tomato based, it did not appear until about a century after other types. By 1801, a recipe for tomato ketchup was created by Sandy Addison. It was later printed in an American cookbook, the "Sugar House Book". James Mease published another recipe in 1812. In 1824, a ketchup recipe using tomatoes appeared in "The Virginia Housewife". This was an important 19th-century cookbook written by Mary Randolph, Thomas Jefferson's cousin.

As the century went on, tomato ketchup became more popular in the United States. More Americans began to like tomatoes. Tomato ketchup was sold locally by farmers. A man named Jonas Yerks (or Yerkes) is believed to have been the first man to make tomato ketchup a national phenomenon. By 1837, he had produced and distributed the condiment nationally. Shortly after that, other companies did the same. F. & J. Heinz created their tomato ketchup in 1876. Heinz tomato ketchup was advertised: "Blessed relief for Mother and the other women in the household!"

The "Webster's Dictionary" of 1913 defined "catchup" as a "table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc. [Written also ketchup]."

Modern ketchup emerged in the early years of the 20th century. This came from a debate over the use of sodium benzoate as a preservative in condiments. Harvey W. Wiley challenged the safety of benzoate. In response, business owners, particularly Henry J. Heinz, pursued a different recipe that did not use that preservative.

Prior to Heinz (and his fellow innovators), commercial tomato ketchups of that time were watery and thin. This was due to the use of unripe tomatoes. Those tomatoes were low in pectin. They were less vinegary than modern ketchups. By pickling ripe tomatoes, the need for benzoate was eliminated. There was also no spoiled ketchup or loss in flavor. The changes also helped make it an important American condiment according to some experts.

Until Heinz, most commercial ketchups appealed to two of the basic tastes: bitterness and saltiness. But the switch to ripe tomatoes and more tomato solids added a stronger "umami" taste. The major increase in the concentration of vinegar added sourness and pungency to the range of sensations experienced while eating it. 

In the past, ketchup was produced from fresh tomatoes after harvesting. Vacuum evaporation made it possible to turn tomatoes into a very thick tomato paste. This made it easy to store at room temperature. This allows a factory to produce ketchup throughout the year.

In fast food chains, ketchup is often put in small packets that hold ketchup inside. Users tear the side or top of the packet. They then squeeze the ketchup out of the ketchup packets. In 2010, Heinz is offering an alternate squeeze and dip cup. This is meant to offer a cleaner method of dispensing the product.

In an earlier approach, some fast food outlets dispense ketchup from pumps into paper cups. Some restaurants still use this method.

In October 2000, Heinz introduced colored ketchup products called EZ Squirt. They included green, purple, pink, orange, teal, and blue colored ketchup. These products were made by adding food coloring to the traditional ketchup. these products have been discontinued.


</doc>
<doc id="22411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22411" title="Finnish">
Finnish

Finnish may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="22415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22415" title="1718">
1718


</doc>
<doc id="22416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22416" title="Dadra and Nagar Haveli">
Dadra and Nagar Haveli

Dadra and Nagar Haveli is a territory in India. It covers an area of 188 mi² or 487 km², it is bigger than Andorra, but smaller than Saint Lucia.


</doc>
<doc id="22417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22417" title="1323">
1323




</doc>
<doc id="22418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22418" title="Danish">
Danish

Danish can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="22419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22419" title="Birthday">
Birthday

A birthday is the day when a person was born. In many places, on a person's birthday, he or she celebrates with friends and family at a party, where they eat cake or other foods, and get gifts.

Not everyone celebrates birthdays, including Jehovah's Witnesses.

In many English-speaking countries, people sing the song "Happy Birthday to You" to the person celebrating her or his birthday. There are similar songs in other languages.

A birthday cake is usually decorated and covered with candles. Most of the time, the number of candles is the same as the age of the birthday person.

A birthday can give a person new responsibilities and rights.

A person's astrological sign is based on his or her birthday.

A birthstone symbolizes the month of birth. In 1912, the Jewelers of America agreed on a list of birthstones:


</doc>
<doc id="22420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22420" title="1442">
1442




</doc>
<doc id="22421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22421" title="Yi I">
Yi I

Yi I (December 26, 1536-1584) was a Korean Confucian scholar. His mother was a famous calligraphist, Shin Saimdang. He was very intelligent as a child, learning to read at three and being very bright at his studies. He was also devoted to his parents: when his mother was sick, he prayed to his ancestors to heal her; and when his father was sick, he cut his own finger with a knife and let his father drink his blood (at that time, people thought human blood was very good medicine).


</doc>
<doc id="22423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22423" title="Sunrise (company)">
Sunrise (company)

Sunrise is a Japanese animation company. The staff uses the name Hajime Yatate in all their productions by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, but this is not a real person--it is a name that all the people who work for the studio use for themselves. 
Some cartoons made by the company are:


</doc>
<doc id="22427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22427" title="Romanian">
Romanian

Romanian could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="22434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22434" title="X-ray">
X-ray

X-ray is part of the electromagnetic spectrum, with frequency higher than ultraviolet radiation. The frequency of X-ray covers a wide range. It can go through many solid materials. X-rays can be produced by hitting metal with fast-moving electrons. 
X-ray photography is used in medicine to see bones and cancer, and other things inside bodies.

X-rays are tiny packets of energy that interact with atoms in the body. The way they interact depends on the power of the x-rays. X-rays with low-level energies go through the Photoelectric effect, mid-level energies go through Compton scattering, and high-level energies go through pair production. Medical x-rays can experience the Photoelectric effect and sometimes Compton scattering. Radiation therapy treatments used to treat cancer use Compton scattering and sometimes Pair production.
There are small amounts of X-rays in the atmosphere. X-rays can change living cells. This means that exposing the human body to high doses of x-rays for a long time should be avoided. Changing living cells can be dangerous. It can cause cancer and other diseases. It can also be good, as cancer cells can be killed that way. Like with any treatment, there are side-effects.

X-rays cannot see soft tissue very well. To detect tumors, other imaging technologies are used; such as Magnetic resonance imaging.


</doc>
<doc id="22436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22436" title="Computed tomography scanner">
Computed tomography scanner

A computed tomography (CT) scanner is an X-ray machine that takes cross sectional images.


</doc>
<doc id="22439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22439" title="Hanoi">
Hanoi

Hanoi (Vietnamese: Quốc Ngữ Hà Nội; Chữ Nôm 河内) is the capital of Vietnam. There are about 3,083,800 (2004) people who live in the city. It was the capital of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam from 1945 until now. Before that, it was the capital of the country now called Vietnam for most of the time from at least the 11th century until 1802. The city is on the right of the Red River. Things made there include machine tools, plywood, textiles, chemicals, and handicrafts. Hanoi is located at 21°2' North, 105°51' East (21.0333, 105.85), 1,760 km north of Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon). 


</doc>
<doc id="22444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22444" title="The Chronicles of Narnia">
The Chronicles of Narnia

The Chronicles of Narnia is a series of seven fantasy books, written by British author C. S. Lewis. They have been published since 1954 and have sold over 100 million copies in 41 languages. The books were written by Lewis between 1949 and 1954, they were also illustrated by Pauline Baynes. In 2005 the first of the books was made into a movie.

"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" was completed by the end of March 1949 and published by Geoffrey Bles in London on 16 October 1950. It tells the story of four ordinary children: Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy Pevensie. They discover a wardrobe in Professor Digory Kirke's house that leads to the magical land of Narnia. The Pevensie children help Aslan, a talking lion, save Narnia from the evil White Witch, who has reigned over the land of Narnia for a century of perpetual winter. The children become kings and queens of this new-found land and establish the Golden Age of Narnia, leaving a legacy to be rediscovered in later books.

This book is set 1300 years after "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe". Narnia is ruled by the Telmarines, a very mean people. The Pevensie children are called to Narnia by Susan's horn, which is blown by Prince Caspian. There is a big war between the Telmarines and Narnians. At the end of the book, Peter and Susan are told that they will not be able to come back to Narnia. The book was published in 1951.

In the third book, Lucy and Edmund return to Narnia with their cousin, Eustace. They travel on a ship with Caspian, now King of Narnia. They are looking for seven lords who were sent away from Narnia by Caspian's uncle, Miraz. This book was published in 1952.

Eustace returns to Narnia with Jill, a friend from school. He finds Caspian very old. Aslan tells Jill to find Rillian, Caspian's son, who has been missing for many years. A Marsh-Wiggle named Puddleglum travels with them. This book was published in 1953.

This book is set during the rule of the Pevensies. Shasta, is a young boy living in the country of Calormen. He decides to run away when he finds out he is not the son of Arsheesh. He heads north to Narnia with a talking horse, Bree, a Calormene noblewoman, Aravis, and her talking horse, Hwin. It was published in 1954.

This book is set before any of the others. It tells about a boy, Digory, and his friend, Polly. They travel to Narnia through the experiments of Digory's uncle, Andrew. It describes the creation (beginning) of Narnia and the first King and Queen. It also shows the beginning of Jadis, who is called the White Witch in "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe". The book was published in 1954.

Completed in the spring of 1953 and published in 1956," The Last Battle" tells about the end of the world of Narnia. Jill and Eustace return to save Narnia from Shift, an ape, who tricks Puzzle, a donkey, into pretending to be the lion, Aslan. The Pevensie children (without Susan, who has decided that Narnia was just part of a game they played as children), along with their parents and friends, die in a train crash and lived in Narnia forever with Aslan.

"The Chronicles of Narnia" have been made into several movies, TV films and stage plays.

Released May 16 2008, Prince Caspian is the second of seven movies to be released by Disney Pictures. The first was "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe", which made a world-wide total of $744,783,957 . Disney also has plans to create the third book in the series: "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader". Set to release in 2010.



</doc>
<doc id="22447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22447" title="Asatru">
Asatru

Asatru (or Ásatrú) is a religion which believes in the ancient Germanic spirits and Gods. It was officially recreated in the 1970s in Iceland, but its roots go back many thousands of years. The name comes from two words in a language called Old Norse. It means "faith in the Æsir." The Æsir are the Germanic gods. 

A person who practices Asatru is called an "Asatruar", and is sometimes referred to as a heathen. If someone wants to talk about two or more followers of Asatru, they would say that they are "Asatrufolk". Sometimes Asatru is also called Odinism, Wodinism, Wodanism, Wotanism or Germanic (neo)paganism.
Asatru is a polytheistic religion in which various goddesses and gods are worshipped. The most prominent are Thor, Odin, Freya, Frigg, Freyr, and Heimdall.



</doc>
<doc id="22448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22448" title="Otherkin">
Otherkin

Otherkin are people who believe that part of them is not human inside. They say that, inside their heads, they feel more like another animal than a human. That other animal might be real, like a wolf, or it might be fictional, like a dragon or an alien. Some otherkin say that they are vampires, by which they mean that they need to drink blood or take the energy away from people in order to stay healthy.

Otherkin is a neologism—a new word—and it is usually used only by people who say they "are" otherkin. The definition can change depending on who uses the word. Some otherkin say that their souls or minds are not human, that they were another species in a past life, or that being not-human is part of their religion. (Otherkin practice many different religions, however.) A few of them say that their physical bodies are not human, either, but there is no proof either for or against that.


</doc>
<doc id="22454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22454" title="Pedro Romeiras">
Pedro Romeiras

Pedro Romeiras was a Portuguese principal ballet dancer born 3 July 1961, in Lisbon. He was the gold medal winner of the II Prix Français de la Danse 1982.


</doc>
<doc id="22462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22462" title="Bonfire">
Bonfire

A bonfire or balefire is a large controlled outdoor fire made from bales of straw or wood. The word is believed to come from "bone fire". In the time of the Celts, there were midsummer festivals where animal bones were burnt to ward off evil spirits. 

In Great Britain, bonfires are particularly associated with "Guy Fawkes Night". This night is also known as "fireworks night" or "bonfire night". On this night, people celebrate that the Gunpowder Plot was discovered. This discovery took place on 5 November 1605. They do this celebration each year. (It is called an "annual celebration".)

In Northern Ireland, "bonfires" are associated with celebrations on the anniversary of the Battle of the Boyne. This battle took place on 12 July 1690.

In Japan, large fires called bon-bi are set to welcome the return of the spirits of the ancestors. Though the two terms are not etymologically or historically related, they serve similar purposes and indicate the universal importance of large fires.

Bonfires were also used for rituals. The idea was that the fire would purify. It was used to consecrate things, or people, that is to make them sacred, in some way. In ancient times, cattle were important symbols of wealth and status. Such cattle were led through the smoke of a bonfire. Couples who were to be wed on May Day would leap through the flames of the bonfire to seal their vows. Coals from a bonfire would be taken home to light the fires in family hearths. This practice was thought to bring good fortune. People also believed that the residents of the Faery realm were incapable of producing fire themselves; embers of bonfires would be carried to the underworld and tended there.

Along with the Maypole, the bonfire is an important component of the Wiccan and Neopagan celebration of Beltaine, also known as May Day.

Nine woods are placed into a traditional Wiccan balefire. These woods are rowan, dogwood, elder, poplar, oak, juniper, holly, cedar, and apple. Occasionally, pine is also used instead of holly or elder, as are a handful of other woods. In some regions, superstition, religious belief, or tradition prohibits the cutting of certain trees.




</doc>
<doc id="22465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22465" title="Bic Runga">
Bic Runga

Bic Runga (born January 13, 1976) is a singer from New Zealand. She has sold lots of music albums in New Zealand.

The names of her albums are:


</doc>
<doc id="22474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22474" title="Sputnik programme">
Sputnik programme

The Sputnik programme was a Soviet Union spacecraft programme. Sputnik 1, the first satellite in the programme, was launched on October 4, 1957. This was the first man-made satellite ever.

The United States was very surprised when the Soviet Union sent Sputnik 1 into space. It did not want to fall behind. So, it began spending more money on science and education. This was when the Space Race between the Soviet Union and the United States began.

The word "Sputnik" comes from the Russian Спутник, literally "travelling companion",


</doc>
<doc id="22479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22479" title="Carnival">
Carnival

Carnival is a public celebration which takes place in many cities and towns in many countries around the world, in February or March each year. Carnival can sometimes last for several weeks. In some places there is only one day of celebration. There are often street parades, bands, costumes and many people wear masks. Carnival is linked to religious traditions in the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Churches, and it is also linked to the folk traditions in every different place where it happens. 

Many Christian churches have a 40 day "season" of fasting called Lent, in which Christians prepare for Easter which is one of the two most important feasts in the Christian year (the other being Christmas). Easter is in late March or April. Lent always begins on a Wednesday, which is called Ash Wednesday in February or March. On that day, many people go to church and have some ash smeared on their forehead as a sign of sorrow for their sins. Then for 40 days, they try to work hard on improving themselves and thinking about the teachings of Jesus. It is usual for people to "give up" something for Lent. They might stop smoking or stop watching TV so they can spend more time reading the Bible or talking with the family. Many people give up all their favourite foods and have no cake, wine, beer, chocolate, icecream or other luxury foods. 

The name "carnivale" comes from Italian and means "putting aside the flesh". This means that during Lent people were not to think about their "flesh" (their bodies) but do things that were good for their souls. The word "flesh"" also means "meat" so many people would eat no meat during Lent.

Mardi Gras means "Fat Tuesday". This was the day just before Lent. The first day of Lent was called Mecredi Meagre meaning "Mean Wednesday". ("Mean" used to mean "poor" and "thin" rather than "nasty".)

During the Middle Ages in Europe, it was normal for people to have a big feast on the Tuesday before the Lenten fast started. In many towns this developed into a big public party, with entertainment in the town square. There is a famous painting by Pieter Bruegel dating from the 1550s and showing the "Battle of Carnival and Lent". (See top of page) 

About Pieter Bruegel's famous painting 

In this picture by Pieter Bruegel, a man representing Carnival is pushed on a barrel by people in costumes and masks. He is about to do battle with Lent. His weapon is a skewer covered with pieces of roast meat. He balances a blackbird pie on his head. Lent, who is very skinny, fights him with two little fish on a bread-board. The person at the front wears a mask and plays a very noisy instrument called a "rummelpott".

Nowadays many cities and towns around the world celebrate Carnival for a week or more. The final day of the celebration is Mardi Gras, when there is often a parade. In some cities the Mardi Gras parade is held on the weekend before Lent begins, rather than on the Tuesday, so as not to disturb the business and traffic of the town. 

In some towns such as the Belgian town of Binche the preparations for the Carnival are complex and start many weeks before Carnival takes place, with most of the town's people taking part in some way. The Carnival of Binche is listed with UNESCO as an event of great historic importance because it has been held there in almost the same way for more than 500 years. 

Carnival is celebrated differently around the world, but there are some things that are similar: 

In the Carneval of Rio de Janeiro, which is one of the biggest and most famous in the world, a major feature is the glamorous costumes as both men and women wear bright colours and wonderful headdresses to dance down the street to the sound of many bands. In Rio there are many very large and expensive decorated "floats".

In New Orleans the bands are one of the most important parts of the Carnival celebrations. In Düsseldorf in Germany, one of the features of the Carnival parades are the enormous models of politicians and other well-known people. In Sydney, the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardis Gras which started out as a parade for Sydney's homosexual community, now includes exhibitions, live theatre and competitions, and stretches over two weeks. 

In Venice the Carnival was celebrated from December 26 until Lent began. During that time, people were allowed to disguise themselves by wearing masks in the street. In the 1930s this was forbidden by the Italian Government, but in 1980 a mask-makers shop was set up in Venice again. Soon the old tradition was brought back, and now many people dress in costume and wear masks for two weeks before Lent begins. 

In Brussels in Belgium, the main Carnival procession is held in the Grande Place, the town square in front of the Gothic Town Hall with its huge tower. Every part of the procession is ruled by a tradition, but some of the traditions are so old that no-one remembers what they mean anymore. At the beginning of the procession is a large group of people dressed in beautiful costumes of silk and velvet, who act out an historic scene of the coming of the King of Spain and his royal court to Brussels 500 years ago. When they have taken their seats, there comes an amazing procession which includes stilt walkers, fire eaters, Goldilocks with a dancing bear, a mad camel, a wizard, lots of men in huge feathery headdresses, and the Archangel Michael whose job is to frighten the Devil. These characters are traditional to Brussels. In every city, the characters that take part are different.

Although the word "carnival" still has its old meaning, it is often used to mean public entertainments of different kinds. Some towns have carnivals that have nothing to do with Lent and are at different times of year. Nowadays there are all sorts of different carnivals. Some of these carnivals, like the Notting Hill Carnival in London and the Melbourne Cup Racing Carnival in Australia are very famous. 

The word "carnival" is now used for festivals, parades and competitions of all sorts. There are school sports carnivals, folk carnivals, multi-cultural carnivals, horse-racing carnivals, wine and food carnivals and boating carnivals. 



</doc>
<doc id="22480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22480" title="Fasting">
Fasting

Fasting is a kind of abstinence. It is when someone does not eat or drink for some specified period of time. It is only the case if the person does so of his or her own will. It may also be that the person only eats and drinks certain kinds of food. Most often, fasting is done for religious reasons. Depending on the tradition, fasting practices may forbid sexual intercourse, (or any sexual desire), masturbation, as well as refraining from eating certain types or groups of food (e.g. meat).

Fasting for religious and spiritual reasons has been a part of human custom since pre-history. It is mentioned in the Qur'an, in the Mahabharata, in the Upanishads, and in the Bible, in both the Old and New Testament.

In almost all cases, there are exceptions for observing the fasting. These are made for the following groups of people


</doc>
<doc id="22481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22481" title="Walpurgis Night">
Walpurgis Night

Walpurgis Night ("Valborgsmässoafton" in Swedish, "Vappu" in Finnish, "Volbriöö" in Estonian, "Valpurģu nakts" or "Valpurģi" in Latvian, "Walpurgisnacht" in German), "Čarodějnice" in Czech is a holiday celebrated on April 30 or May 1, in Finland, Sweden, Bohemia (Czech Republic), Estonia, Latvia and Germany.

The festival is named after Saint Walburga (known in Scandinavia as "Valborg"; alternative forms are "Walpurgis", "Wealdburg", or "Valderburger"), born in Wessex in 710 a niece of Saint Boniface. According to legend, she was a daughter to the Saxon prince St. Richard. Together with her brothers she travelled to Württemberg, Germany where she became a nun and lived in the convent of Heidenheim, which was founded by her brother Wunibald. Walburga died on 25 February 779 and that day still carries her name in the Catholic calendar. However she was not made a saint until 1 May in the same year, and that day carries her name in the Swedish calendar.

Historically the Walpurgisnacht is derived from Pagan spring customs, where the arrival of spring was celebrated with bonfires at night. Viking fertility celebrations took place around April 30 and due to Walburga being declared a saint at that time of year, her name became associated with the celebrations. Walburga was worshipped in the same way that Vikings had celebrated spring and as they spread throughout Europe, the two dates became mixed together and created the Walpurgis Night celebration.

In Germany, Walpurgisnacht, the night from April 30 to May 1, is the night when allegedly the witches hold a large celebration on the Blocksberg and await the arrival of Spring. When the travel to that mountain is too far, they may also chose another hill in the region they live. 

""Walpurgis Night (in German folklore) the night of April 30 (May Day's eve), when witches meet on the Brocken mountain and hold revels with their Gods..."" 

""Brocken the highest of the Harz Mountains of north central Germany. It is noted for the phenomenon of the Brocken spectre and for witches' revels which reputably took place there on Walpurgis night. 
The Brocken Spectre is a magnified shadow of an observer, typically surrounded by rainbow-like bands, thrown onto a bank of cloud in high mountain areas when the sun is low. The phenomenon was first reported on the Brocken."" 

—Taken from Oxford Phrase & Fable.


</doc>
<doc id="22485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22485" title="Bird flu">
Bird flu

Bird flu (also called avian influenza, avian flu, bird influenza, or grippe of the birds), is an illness caused by a virus. The virus, called "influenza A" or "type A", usually lives in birds, but sometimes infects mammals, including humans. It is called influenza when it infects humans.

There are many types of influenza A, which was first found in a bird in Italy in 1878. Most types have weak symptoms, such as breathing problems, similar to the common cold.

But some types kill birds, and a few kill humans and other mammals. One type of bird flu, called "Spanish flu", killed 50 to 100 million people in 1918/1919. Another type, called "Asian Flu" killed one million in 1957, and another one, called "Hong Kong Flu", also killed one million people in 1968.

A subtype, called "H5N1", killed six people in Hong Kong in 1997, but did not kill again until 2003, this time in China. Until the middle of 2005, it was primarily found in southeast Asia but since then has spread to parts of Africa and Europe. It has killed tens of millions of birds and resulted in the slaughter of hundreds of millions of other birds to limit its spread. So far it is mostly a bird disease and rarely infects humans. The concern about H5N1 is that it is constantly evolving at a very fast rate and could create a human flu pandemic that could kill many millions of people. Governments around the world are spending billions of dollars to deal with this problem: studying H5N1, creating vaccines, conducting pandemic practice exercises, stockpiling useful flu medication, and many other important activities.


</doc>
<doc id="22488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22488" title="Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy">
Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy

The "Jyllands-Posten" Muhammad cartoons controversy is a controversy about a series of cartoons. They were first published in a Danish newspaper. The publication led to an outcry, and sparked violent protests in the islamic world, with many people dying. 

The crisis began after cartoons depicting the Islamic prophet Muhammad were published in the Danish newspaper "Jyllands-Posten" on September 30, 2005. Danish Muslim organizations staged protests in response. As the controversy has grown, some or all of the cartoons have been reprinted in newspapers in more than fifty other countries. The protests got worse when fake cartoons were released.

One of the cartoons showed Muhammad with a bomb in his turban. Some people thought this was saying that all Muslims are terrorists. But other cartoons made fun of the Jyllands-Posten newspaper. One insulted the editors of the newspaper, by using the language Farsi. 

Critics claims that the cartoons are culturally insulting, Islamophobic, blasphemous, and intended to humiliate a "marginalized" minority. However, supporters of the cartoons claim they illustrate an important issue and their publication exercises the right of free speech. They have also claimed that similar cartoons are made relative to other religions, arguing that Islam and its followers have not been targeted in a discriminatory way. 



</doc>
<doc id="22490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22490" title="Blasphemy">
Blasphemy

Blasphemy is a word that means "speaking badly about a religion", or "insulting a god". In many countries blasphemy is a crime.





</doc>
<doc id="22492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22492" title="1180s">
1180s


</doc>
<doc id="22496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22496" title="Brie">
Brie

Brie is a type of soft cheese with a yellowish interior and a white layer on the outside of the cheese. Like other cheeses, Brie is a dairy product made from milk. In some countries, Brie cheese is served with fruit as a dessert at the end of a meal. 

Originally, Brie was a French cheese, but now there are also Brie-style cheeses from outside of France. The cheese is produced in the region of the same name (which is basically just outside of Paris). It is made of the milk of cows. 

The milk of soft cheeses ("à pate molle" in French) is not heated during the production of the cheese. Talleyrand said about this kind of cheese that it was the "king of cheeses". He said that in the 19th century. This kind of cheese has been made for at least 1000 years, though.

In Europe this cheese is usually not treated chemically. It might therefore change in consistency or color. It will go bad if it is not kept in the refrigerator. In most countries, Brie-style cheeses are made with Pasteurized milk.

The following kinds of Brie exist:


Other French "Bries" are:


Bries from outside France:


Cheeses are made into round loaves, of about 36 cm in diameter. The cheeses then weight about 2.5 kilograms. It is best tasted from April to October, after a ripening period of 8 to 10 weeks. About 2% of the production occurs on farms.

The Brie de Melun is smaller than the Brie de Meaux, but more salt is added to it. The ripening period is 10 weeks. It is best consumed April to September, but it can be found March to November, in some locations. About 5% of production occurs on farms.

When people buy Brie, they should make sure that it has the following traits:


</doc>
<doc id="22502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22502" title="Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord">
Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord

Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord (February 2, 1754 - May 17, 1838) was a French diplomat. He worked successfully from the regime of Louis XVI, through the French Revolution and then under Napoleon I, Louis XVIII and Louis-Philippe. Since the turn of the 19th century he was known simply as "Talleyrand". He is widely seen as one of the most versatile and influential diplomats in European history, although he was known to accept bribes from other European powers, especially while serving under Napoleon.




</doc>
<doc id="22505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22505" title="Pasteurization">
Pasteurization

Pasteurization (or pasteurisation) is a process of making foods stay fresh. It is named after Louis Pasteur. He was the first person to learn how to do it. The first pasteurization was done by Louis Pasteur and Claude Bernard on April 20, 1862.

People pasteurize food to kill any harmful microbes. This makes food safe to eat. 

Unlike sterilization, pasteurization is not intended to kill all microorganisms in the food, as compared to appertization, invented by Nicolas François Appert. Instead, pasteurization wants to get a "log reduction" in the number of viable organisms. It wants to bring their number down so they are unlikely to cause disease (assuming the pasteurized product is kept in the refrigerator and consumed before its expiration date). Commercial scale sterilization of food is not common, because it adversely affects the taste and quality of the product.

Pasteurization is usually done to milk, which was first suggested by Franz von Soxhlet in 1886. There are two popular ways to pasteurize milk. First, high temperature/short time (HTST), and second, ultra-high temperature (UHT). HTST is the most common method. Milk only labeled "pasteurized" (or "past") is usually treated with the HTST method, whereas milk labelled "ultra-pasteurized" or "UHT" must be treated with the UHT method. HTST is when the milk is at a temperature of 161.5 degrees Fahrenheit (or 72 degrees Celsius) for at least 15 seconds. UHT is when the milk is at a temperature of 280 °F or 138 °C for at least two seconds. 

Pasteurization rules are usually set by national food safety agencies (like the USDA in the United States and the Food Standards Agency in the United Kingdom). These agencies say milk has to be HTST pasteurized to have the "pasteurized" label. There are different rules for different dairy products, depending on the fat content and what they will be used for. For example, the pasteurization rules for cream are different than the rules for fluid milk, and the standards for pasteurizing cheese are designed to keep the phosphatase enzyme fresh, which helps in making the cheese.

HTST pasteurized milk normally has a refrigerated shelf life of two or three weeks, but ultra pasteurized milk can last much longer when refrigerated, sometimes two or three months. When UHT pasteurization is mixed with safe handling and container technology, it can even be stored unrefrigerated for even longer periods of time.

In addition to the standard HTST and UHT pasteurization standards, there are other lesser-known pasteurization techniques. The first technique, called "batch pasteurization", involves heating large batches of milk to a lower temperature, typically 155 °F (68 °C). The other technique is called higher-heat/shorter time (HHST), and it lies somewhere between HTST and UHT in terms of time and temperature. Pasteurization causes some irreversible and some temporary denaturization of the proteins in milk.
In most legislations, double pasteurization is not allowed. A heat treatment at a lower temperature or for a shorter time is sometimes performed. Possibly, such milk could be called "raw milk" or, confusingly, "unpasteurized milk". It cannot be called "pasteurized", even though a significant number of pathogens are destroyed during the process.

In recent years, there has been some consumer interest in raw milk products, due to perceived health benefits. Advocates of raw milk maintain, correctly, that some components survive in milk that has not been pasteurized. Specifically, raw milk contains immunoglobulins and the enzymes lipase and phosphatase, which are inactivated by heat. Raw milk also contains vitamin B6 of which up to 20% may be lost on heat treatment. It is also claimed to contain beneficial bacteria which aid digestion and boost immunity. 

Commercial distribution of packaged raw milk is not allowed in most US states.

Some doctors (and some raw milk advocates) acknowledge that certain people should not drink raw milk, including pregnant or breast-feeding mothers, those undergoing immunosuppression treatment for cancer, organ transplant, or autoimmune diseases; and those who are immunocompromised due to diseases like AIDS.

In fact, some doctors suggest that babies and breast-feeding mothers avoid all but UHT pasteurized dairy products. 

In Africa, it is common to boil milk whenever it is harvested. This intense heating greatly changes the flavor of milk, which the people in Africa are accustomed to.

Milk pasteurization standards have been subject to increasing scrutiny in recent years, due to the discovery of pathogens that are both widespread and heat resistant (able to survive pasteurization in significant numbers). Researchers have developed more sensitive diagnostics, such as real-time PCR and improved culture methods, that have enabled them to identify pathogens in pasteurized milk.

"Note: The following paragraphs in this section discuss controversial, ongoing research."

One bacterium in particular, the organism "Mycobacterium avium" subspecies "paratuberculosis" (MAP), which causes Johne's disease in cattle and is suspected of causing at least some Crohn's disease in humans, has been found to survive pasteurization in retail milk in the U.S., the U.K., Greece, and the Czech Republic. The food safety authorities in the U.K. have decided to re-evaluate pasteurization standards in light of the MAP results and other evidence of harmful, pasteurization-resistant pathogens.

The USDA (which is responsible for setting pasteurization standards in the U.S.) has not re-evaluated their position on pasteurization adequacy. They do not dispute the studies, which are at this point accepted by the scientific community, but maintain that the presence of MAP in retail pasteurized milk must be due to post-pasteurization contamination. However, some researchers within the FDA, which is responsible for food safety in the U.S., have begun pushing for a re-evaluation of these results. There is a small but growing body of criticism directed at these agencies by Crohn's disease sufferers, scientists, and doctors. Some have suggested that the U.S. dairy industry has been successful in suppressing the agencies' response to a potential health crisis, for fear of consumer panic which would lead to a decrease in milk consumption. It is worth noting that while MAP has not been definitely proven to be harmful in humans, all other mycobacteria are pathogenic, and it has been definitively shown to cause disease in cattle and other ruminants.

A newer method called flash pasteurization involves shorter exposure to higher temperatures, and is claimed to be better for preserving color and taste in some products.

The term cold pasteurization is used sometimes for the use of ionizing radiation (see food irradiation) or other means (e.g. chemical) to kill bacteria in food. Food irradiation is also sometimes called "electronic pasteurization".

Products that can be pasteurized:




</doc>
<doc id="22510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22510" title="Soft cheese">
Soft cheese

Soft cheese (in French: "Fromage à pate molle") is cheese that does not get heated during production.

An example of soft cheese would be Brie.


</doc>
<doc id="22511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22511" title="Cult">
Cult

A cult is a religious group of people. It is often a small, newly started religious movement. Cults have beliefs or practices that many people think of as being odd, or that have practices that most people in the world do not practice. 

Whether a religious group is or is not a cult is a difficult problem. Personal opinions may change over time. What is at one point in time considered a cult may later be accepted as a religion and what at one point of time is considered an accepted religion may later become a cult.

In order to determine therefore whether a specific religious group is as a cult, an absolute criteria for truth needs to be used to measure the doctrines and beliefs of the group against those of a known standard, to eastablish a link for measurement to compare against and juxtapose, so as to enable an accurate and fair representation of the current notch at which the complements and differences are held.



</doc>
<doc id="22512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22512" title="The Cult">
The Cult

The Cult is a English rock band. They formed in 1982 under the name Death Cult and later renamed to Southern Death Cult in 1983, then was again renamed to their current name The Cult.


</doc>
<doc id="22513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22513" title="1028">
1028


</doc>
<doc id="22514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22514" title="1056">
1056



</doc>
<doc id="22516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22516" title="James A. Michener">
James A. Michener

James Albert Michener (February 3, 1907 - October 16, 1997) was an American writer. He wrote such books as "Tales of the South Pacific", "Hawaii", "The Drifters", "Texas", and "Poland". Most of his 40 books are very large sagas. They are about the lives of many generations in a particular place. His non-fiction writings include the 1992 book "The World is My Home" and "Sports in America".

Michener wrote that he did not know who his parents were or exactly when and where he was born. He was raised by an adoptive mother, Mabel Michener, in Doylestown, Pennsylvania. Some have argued that Mabel was his birth mother. He graduated from Swarthmore College, where he played basketball, in 1929. He later studied at the Colorado State Teachers College. He taught there for several years. He also taught at Harvard University. 

His writing career began during World War II. He was assigned to the South Pacific Ocean as a naval historian. He used his time there as the basis for "Tales of the South Pacific", his first book. This book was the basis for the musical "South Pacific".

Michener met his wife Mari while in Japan. His novel "Sayonara" is autobiographical.

On January 10, 1977, he was given the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Gerald R. Ford.

In his final years, he lived in Austin, Texas.



</doc>
<doc id="22517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22517" title="1150s">
1150s





</doc>
<doc id="22519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22519" title="War of 1812">
War of 1812

The War of 1812 was fought between the British Empire and the United States from 1812 to 1814 on land in North America and at sea. More than half of the British forces were made up of Canadian militia (volunteers) because British soldiers had to fight Napoleon in Europe. The British defeated the attacking American forces. In the beginning, the war increased levels of nationalism in both Canada and the United States. 

The Americans declared war against Great Britain because the British began taking American ships by force and they were kidnapping American sailors and forcing them to serve in the British navy. The fighting began when the United States started to attack the Canadian provinces in 1812 and 1813, but the borders were successfully defended by the British. In 1813, British and American ships fought in Lake Erie in a battle known as the Battle of Lake Erie. Americans under Oliver Hazard Perry lost. 

In 1814, British soldiers landed in the United States. They burned Washington, D.C. to the ground and also attacked Baltimore. It was during this battle that a poem was written by an American soldier, Francis Scott Key. The poem was later used to give the words to a new national anthem for the United States: "The Star Spangled Banner." The final battle of the war took place in January of 1815. The British attacked New Orleans and lost against the Americans and General Andrew Jackson. The battle took place after the peace treaty had been signed.

The War of 1812 ended in 1816 even though the signing of the Treaty of Ghent, which was supposed to end the war, happened on Dec 24, 1814, in Belgium. Both sides thought they had won, but no great changes took place. News of the peace treaty did not reach the US until after the battle in New Orleans in January 1815.


</doc>
<doc id="22521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22521" title="Chandigarh">
Chandigarh

Chandigarh, also called "The Beautiful City", is a city in India. It is a union territory, because it is the capital of two states: Punjab and Haryana. As a territory it does not belong to either state. 

Sikh nationalists want the city as a future capital of Khalistan. It is well known for its mixed cultural background and its fast development in the field of Information Technology. It has outlets of many famous multinational companies established here and is emerging as a hub for business development. The territory covers an area of 44 mi² or 114 km², it is bigger than Montserrat but smaller than Jersey.


</doc>
<doc id="22522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22522" title="Convection">
Convection

A convection current is caused by the expansion of a liquid or gas due to its rise in temperature. The material becomes less dense and rises. As it gets colder, it starts to fall or sink. This starts the cycle of a convection current. This only happens to fluids that are near an energy source that causes it to expand. For example, the movement of water in a pan is driven by a localized heat source. When cool water goes to an edge of a pie pan, the water is dense. It flows around and back to the center. As the water nears the hot metal, it warms again and rises as steam to repeat the cycle. The hot fluid becomes less dense and rises so molecules are carried to a new location. Energy in hot fluid transfers away, fluid contracts becoming more dense, and the fluid flows downward again. Another example are the clouds and the earth. The precipitation goes down, and the heat source makes it rise into the clouds again, which becomes a continuous cycle. The mass of fluid flowing in a circle is a convection cell. This is known as convection. Convection is the movement of water from a heat energy source and density changes because the fluid's heat changes from the heat energy causing it to rise and sink.
Heat from within the earth creates convection currents which cause the plates to move, perhaps by a few centimeters a year. Plates may either move away from, towards, or sideways past, neighboring plates. It is also the transformation of water to vapor due to the Earth's crust. 

After the "liquid/gas" has expanded, it becomes cooler and cooler, and it reaches a point where it just turns to water vapour, and the particles of the liquid in the fluid becomes a gas. Most of the information about "heat" is usually related to "the particle theory", so you may keep that in mind.

A good example is a central heating system. The heat will rise if it is less dense and will fall if it is cold and more dense.


</doc>
<doc id="22531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22531" title="Chipmunk">
Chipmunk

A chipmunk is a small squirrel-like rodent. About twenty-three species fall under this title, with one species in northeastern Asia, one in the eastern portions of Canada and the US, and all the rest native to the western part of North America.

The name may have originally been spelled "chitmunk" (perhaps from a Native American word meaning "red squirrel"). However, the earliest form comes from the Oxford English Dictionary (in 1842) as "chipmonk". Other early forms include "chipmuck" and "chipminck".

Chip 'n Dale, two Disney cartoon characters, are famous chipmunks in pop culture. Another such trio is Alvin, Simon and Theodore (created by Ross Bagdasarian).


</doc>
<doc id="22535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22535" title="Vicente Piccio, Jr.">
Vicente Piccio, Jr.

Retired Major General Vicente M. Piccio (born on March 1, 1927 in Iloilo) was a Filipino soldier. He was Chief of the Philippine Air Force during the last years of the dictatorship of Marcos, notably during the 1986 People Power Revolution.



</doc>
<doc id="22538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22538" title="Piccio">
Piccio

Piccio is an Italian surname.



</doc>
<doc id="22541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22541" title="1143">
1143


</doc>
<doc id="22542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22542" title="Donald Duck">
Donald Duck

Donald Duck is one of the most popular cartoon characters in the world. He was created by Walt Disney.

Donald is a white duck with an orange bill and legs. He usually wears a sailor cap, shirt and a red bow tie. Many people think that Donald has been censored in Finland because he does not wear trousers, but it is an urban legend.
He was created in 1934 by an unknown designer. He was first seen in a cartoon on 9 June 1934.

According to Don Rosa's family tree, Donald Duck is Quackmore Duck and Orthensia McDuck's son. This makes him a nephew of Orthensia's brother, Scrooge McDuck. Donald Duck is more famous than many actors and actresses. He also appears in comic strips all over the world.


</doc>
<doc id="22543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22543" title="1717">
1717



</doc>
<doc id="22544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22544" title="Montevideo">
Montevideo

Montevideo is the capital and the largest city in Uruguay; it was founded by the Portuguese in 1717. Its best neighbourhood is called Carrasco. This neighbourhood is very exclusive due to its architectural styles.


</doc>
<doc id="22548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22548" title="Book of Esther">
Book of Esther

Esther is the name of a book in the Tanakh (the Hebrew Bible) and the Old Testament, and also its title heroine. It is the basis for the Jewish celebration Purim.

Although it is never said who wrote the book of Esther, from inside evidence it is possible to make some guesses about the author and when it was written. The author was a Jew, because he where the Jewish festival came from and from the Jewish inside the story. The author probably lived in a Persian city, because he knew Persian customs well, and does not say anything about the land of Judah or Jerusalem. The earliest date of the book would be a little while after the events were told, for instance, about 460 B.C. (before Ezra's return to Jerusalem). It is also thought that the festival of Purim had been celebrated some time before this book was written.

The author's main purpose was to write about how the yearly festival of Purim started and to make people remember the saving of the Jewish people during King Xerxes' reign. The book shows both the start of the festival and why it should continue to be celebrated.

In the book, the author repeatedly talks about the conflict between Israel and the Amalekites, a conflict that began during the exodus and continued through Israel's history. The author of Esther views them as the symbol of all the powers of the world against God's people. Now that Israel has been released from , Haman's dangerous is the final try in the Old Testament time to get rid of them. When Haman is defeated, Israel enjoys a time of rest.

Feasting is another important theme in Esther, as seen in the picture on the left. Banquets are the setting for important parts of the story. There are ten banquets .

Repeating is one of the main features of the style of the book of Esther. The three groups of banquets come in pairs; there are two lists of the king's servants ; two reports that Esther hid who she was; two gatherings of women; two houses for the women; two fasts; two talks of Haman with his wife and friends; two sudden visits to the king by Esther; two coverings of Haman's face; two royal commands; two cooling of the king's anger; two days for the Jews to protect themselves and take ; and two letters about how Purim started.

Another important feature of this book that has been often wondered at is that it never directly talks about God, worship, prayer, or sacrifice. This has made some people think the book is not as religious as other books. However, it is possible that the author purposefully did not say anything about God or anything religious to show more clearly that it is God who controls all the "unimportant" that are in the story and end in saving the Jews.

The Book of Esther is about a Jewish girl, adopted by her uncle Mordecai after her parents had died. Xerxes, the Persian king, who rejected his other wife (Queen Vashti), fell in love with Esther in the beauty contest. He took in Esther as the new Persian Queen, not knowing she was an Israelite.

Meanwhile Haman, the king's prime minister, creates a grudge against Esther's uncle Mordecai because he does not bow down to him, and only to the God of Israel. He despises Mordecai because he is a Jew, and tries to trick the king into making a law to kill all of the Jews. He, too, does not know that the Queen is a Jew herself.

Later, Queen Esther finds out the plot by Mordecai, and tries to stop it. She goes to the king and invites him to dine with her, and with Haman, so that she may tell him. But when he comes,she loses bravery and does not tell him. Later she invites him and Haman again, and this time she tells him. The king, furious, storms out, and Haman asks Esther for mercy. When the king comes back in, he mistakes Haman for 'molest'ing his Queen, and hangs him on the gallows that Haman had prepared for Mordecai. 

Then Mordecai comes into the presence of the king and receives the signet ring of the king. The King then changes the law and saves the Jews because of Esther's pleas.


</doc>
<doc id="22550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22550" title="Clay">
Clay

Clay is a fine-grained mineral made of aluminium silicate. When wet, clay has a plastic quality, and can be used to made pottery.

Clay often contains some water because the water molecules stick to the tiny grains. There may also be some organic materials in the clay.


</doc>
<doc id="22554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22554" title="Rifle">
Rifle

The rifle is a gun with a stock to brace against the shoulder and a barrel with twisting grooves. The grooves are called "rifling" and make bullets spin as they fly through the air.

Rifles are made to shoot many different sizes of bullets and different amounts of gun powder. Rifles are usually made to be able to hit targets far away from the shooter.

Modern rifles are made for many different purposes. Some are made for hunting animals. Some are made for soldiers to use in war. Some are made for police to have in case they need them. Some are made for target shooting. 

Rifles can work in different ways. Some rifles have what is called a bolt action, where a small handle is used to move a part of the rifle, letting the shooter put a bullet in ready for firing and taking that bullet to the right place in the rifle. The rifle in the picture above is a bolt action. Some are semi-automatics, where several bullets are put in at once. When the trigger is pulled, the bullet is fired and the next one is brought into place. Some are fully automatic, which work like semi-automatics but allow the shooter to fire more than one bullet at a time by holding down the trigger.




</doc>
<doc id="22564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22564" title="1748">
1748


</doc>
<doc id="22565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22565" title="Deuterocanonical books">
Deuterocanonical books

Deuterocanonical books means "second canon" in Greek. It usually means the parts of the Bible that are only used by some Christian churches (mostly Roman Catholic and Orthodox). The books have originally been written in Greek language and they date to era of some 250-150 years before Christ.

The books are not part of the Jewish Tanakh (also called the "Hebrew Bible") since their original language is Greek and not Hebrew. Some books considered deuterocanonical by Catholics are:


The "Book of Daniel" and the "Book of Esther" are longer in Catholic Bibles than in Protestant Bibles because they have more stories.

Most Protestant Christian churches do not think that the deuterocanonical books were inspired by God. They call these books Apocrypha. Martin Luther considered these book very good and useful reading; John Calvin considered them as work of Satan.


</doc>
<doc id="22566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22566" title="1247">
1247



</doc>
<doc id="22570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22570" title="Sidekick">
Sidekick

A sidekick is someone who regularly travels with, and helps, another person. In fiction, the other person is often a crimefighter or superhero, such as Batman and his sidekick Robin. Some people consider Sancho Panza, Don Quixote's ever-faithful companion, to be a type of sidekick, even though the book was written long before the word sidekick was invented.


</doc>
<doc id="22573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22573" title="Nicobar Islands">
Nicobar Islands

The Nicobar Islands are an island chain in the eastern Indian Ocean. They are part of India.

The Nicobar islands include 22 islands of different sizes. The largest one is Great Nicobar. The total land area of the chain is 1841 km². The highest point on the Nicobars is Mount Thullier at 642 m. The population of the islands was 42,026 in 2001, roughly 65% of whom are indigenous peoples (the Nicobarese and Shompen peoples, listed among the Scheduled Tribes of India), and 35% migrants from India and Sri Lanka.

The Nicobars are located southeast of the Indian subcontinent.They are separated form the subcontinent by the Bay of Bengal by about 1,300 km and are separated from the Andaman Islands to the north by the 150 km wide Ten Degree Channel and are 189 km from the Indonesian island of Sumatra to the southeast. The Andaman and Nicobar islands separate the Bay of Bengal from the Andaman Sea. Until the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, Indira Point, south of Great Nicobar, was the southernmost point in India.

The islands cluster into three groups. The northern group includes Car Nicobar (127 km²) and uninhabited Batti Malv (2 km²). The central group includes Chowra (8 km²), Teressa (101 km²), Poahat (13.3 km²), Katchal (174 km²), Camorta (188 km²), Nancowry (67 km²), and Trinket (86 km²); the Isle of Man and Tillangchong (17 km²) are uninhabited. Tillangchong is a wildlife sanctuary. The southern group includes Great Nicobar (1045 km²), Little Nicobar (157 km²), Kondul (4 km²) and Pulomilo (1 km²); the islets of Meroe, Trak, Treis, Menchal, Cubra, Pigeon, and Megapod are uninhabited. Megapod is a wildlife sanctuary.

Administratively the Islands are part of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a Union territory of India. The capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands territory is Port Blair on South Andaman. The Union Territory is divided into two districts, Andaman district and Nicobar district (the latter encompassing all of the Nicobars). The Indian Government presently restricts access to the Nicobars by special permit, and in general non-Indian citizens are forbidden from visiting the Nicobar Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="22574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22574" title="Andaman and Nicobar Islands">
Andaman and Nicobar Islands

The Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a union territory of India. The name is often shortened to A & N Islands, or ANI. It is in the Indian Ocean, in the southern part of the Bay of Bengal. It is made of two island groups - the Andaman Islands and the Nicobar Islands - separating the Andaman Sea to the east, from the Indian Ocean. These two groups are separated by the 10° N parallel, the Andamans lying to the north of this latitude, and the Nicobars to the south. The capital of this territory is the Andamanese town of Port Blair.

The territory's population in the last (2001) Census of India was 356,152. Added together, the total land area of the territory is around 6,496 km² or 2,508 mi², it is larger than the Palestinian territories but smaller than Georgia territory of Abkhazia.


</doc>
<doc id="22587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22587" title="Kazan">
Kazan

Kazan (Tatar "Qazan", "Казан", Russian "Казань") is the capital city of Tatarstan and one of Russia's largest cities. It is a major industrial, commercial and cultural center, and remains the most important center of Tatar culture. Kazan lies at the confluence of the Volga (İdel) and Kazanka (Qazansu) rivers in central European Russia. 

The origin of the name is unclear. The literal translation of Tatar qazan is a boiler or cauldron. Alternately, it may have been derived from qazğan, Tatar for "dug [ditch]".

"Qazan" is originally a name for a special cooking pan, a variant of a wok, but more solid and heavier. It was believed that the city of Kazan is named after this object because of its geographical similarity with a "qazan"-pan; namely the city is situated in a U - shape lowland. 

Another, a more romantic legend tells a story of a Tatar princess Söyembikä, who dropped a golden dish (golden qazan) in to the river on which the city is located while washing it.

Nevertheless, Chuvash legends refer to Bulgarian prince "Khusan" (Chuvash rendering of Muslim name Hassan) and Chuvashes call this city Хусан after the name of this prince.


</doc>
<doc id="22588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22588" title="Tornado">
Tornado

A tornado is a tube of violently spinning air that touches the ground. Wind inside the tornado spins fast, but the actual 'circle' of wind around them is massive. This makes tornadoes very dangerous. Tornadoes are especially dangerous to people in cars or mobile homes.

Tornadoes mostly happen during strong thunderstorms called supercell storms. They cause a lot of damage to anything in the path. Tornadoes are ranked on the Fujita scale, from F0 to F5. The F0 has the lowest wind speed, and the F5 has the highest one.

Tornadoes can happen in nearly any part of the world. In the United States, a tornado has been created in all states. The middle part of the United States is nicknamed 'Tornado Alley' for the large amount tornadoes created there.

A tornado does not necessarily need to be visible; however, the extremely low pressure caused by the high wind speeds and rapid rotation usually causes water vapor in the air to condense into a visible "condensation funnel". The tornado is the vortex of wind, not the condensation cloud.

A single storm may produce multiple tornadoes and mesocyclones. Tornadoes produced from the same storm are referred to as a "tornado family". Sometimes multiple tornadoes from distinct mesocyclones occur at the same time.

Occasionally, several tornadoes are spawned from the same very large storm. If there is no break in their activity, this is considered a "tornado outbreak", although there are various definitions. A period of several successive days with tornado outbreaks in the same general area (spawned by multiple weather systems) is a "tornado outbreak sequence", occasionally called an "extended tornado outbreak".

Sometimes, tornadoes happen in groups. 148 tornadoes struck on the same day in April 1974. Many towns in midwestern America and Canada were destroyed. More than 300 people died. They were hit by flying wrecks, buried under houses, and thrown by powerful winds. That day, students in Xenia, Ohio were practicing for a play in the auditorium stage. One girl looked out the window and saw the tornado. The students ran into the hall, covering their heads. A few seconds later, all the school buses flew right onto the stage.

A man in another town hid under the couch in his living room. He held onto one couch leg. The tornado struck his house, and winds blew around him. When the tornado left, he was outside. There was no house. The couch had disappeared, and he was only holding onto one couch leg.

A "tornado watch" is given when the weather conditions look like a tornado could form. A 'PDS (Particularly Dangerous Situation)' watch is given when a likely tornado outbreak is to start, many strong tornadoes will form in the area, or an ongoing tornado outbreak is in the works in the area. A "tornado warning" is given if someobdy has actually seen a tornado or if a tornado 'signiture' (usually the storm has a 'hook' or 'U' echo) has shown up on radar. Tornado Emergencies are a special weather statement saying that a powerful tornado is about to hit an area with a lot of people in it(cities like Nashville, TN), a tornado has been spotted, and the tornado is expected to cause deaths.

To keep safe in a tornado, here are some tips you can follow:





</doc>
<doc id="22589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22589" title="Category:1869 books">
Category:1869 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1869.


</doc>
<doc id="22591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22591" title="Hard disk">
Hard disk

A hard disk drive (HDD) , hard disk (sometimes 'disk' is also spelled "disc") or hard drive, is something used by computers to store information. Hard disks use magnetic recording (similar to the way recording is done on magnetic tapes) to store information on rotating circular platters. The capacity of a hard drive is usually measured in gigabytes (GB). A gigabyte is one thousand megabytes and a megabyte is one million bytes, which means that a gigabyte is one billion bytes. Some hard drives are so large that their capacity is measured in terabytes, (TB) where one terabyte is a thousand gigabytes (1 TB = 1000 GB). Very early Consumer Grade hard drives were measured in Megabytes

Over the years there have been many disk interface types, though all used the same rotating platter recording technology. Differences were in how the data was encoded to binary, data integrity, data transfer speeds, cabling requirements, and of course costs. Some once common but now virtually obsolete types of hard drive interfaces are:
Hard disks use different interfaces and ports. An interface usually has two parts. First there is the specification of how the signals are transmitted. This includes what cables to use, what length the cables can be and so on. The second part of the interface definition is the language to use. This speaks about what the signals mean.

As there are different kinds of hard disks, there are also different kinds of interfaces. In 2009, it was common to attach a hard disk using a Serial ATA connection. The connection that came before that was called "IDE" and is called Parallel ATA today. In large data centers, Fibre Channel is often used.

For servers, the SCSI (pronounced 'scuzzy') interface is very popular. There are several types and versions of SCSI interface, like parallel and Serial Attached SCSI, each stepping-up in terms of speed and price. Within servers, several SCSI drives are often used in conjunction with each other, in order to safeguard against data loss or corruption (this is known as RAID - and there are many different configurations to choose from).


</doc>
<doc id="22592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22592" title="Magnet">
Magnet

A magnet is a very special metal. When a magnet goes near a special kind of metal or other magnets, and the poles (sides) touching are opposite, it will pull, or "attract" the other metal or magnet closer. Also, if the two poles are the same, the two magnets will push away, or "repel", from each other. This is called "magnetism". Magnets can make some other metals into magnets when they are rubbed together. A ""soft"" or ""impermanent"" magnet is one which loses its memory of previous magnetizations. "Soft" magnetic materials are often used in electromagnets to enhance (often hundreds or thousands of times) the magnetic field of a wire that carries an electrical current and is wrapped around the magnet; the field of the "soft" magnet increases with the current. Permanent magnets occur naturally in some rocks, particularly lodestone, but are now more commonly manufactured. A magnet's magnetism decreases when it is heated and increases when it is cooled. It has to be heated at around 1000 degrees Celsius. Natural/permanent magnets are not artificial and is made from a kind of rock called lodestone or magnetite. Like poles (S-pole and S-pole/N-pole and N-pole) will repel each other while unlike poles (N-pole and S-pole) will attract each other.

Magnets are only attracted to special metals. Metals that have iron and steel attract magnets well. Metals like brass, copper, zinc and aluminum are not attracted to magnets.

A compass uses the Earth's magnetic field, and will always point to the North Pole. A north side of the magnet is attracted to the south side of another magnet. However, the north side of the compass points to the north pole, this can only mean that the "north pole" is really the magnetic south, and the "south pole" is really the magnetic north.

The first people to discover magnetic rocks were the Chinese. They called it "the loving stone" because the stones love metal the way parents love children. At first the Chinese used the stones to preform fortune-telling and magic tricks. Later on they used the 'loving stones' to invent the compass.



</doc>
<doc id="22594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22594" title="Manufacture">
Manufacture

Manufacture is when people make things. It usually means people making very big, complicated things that take a lot of steps to finish. Often machines are involved in manufacture.
It involves much preparation into building or "manufacturing these products." It all starts with an idea.


</doc>
<doc id="22595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22595" title="By-product">
By-product

A by-product is something that is made or produced while a product is manufactured in a factory. Usually, the by-product is not used, and it becomes waste that is put in a landfill or garbage dump. Sometimes by-products are toxic materials which are dangerous to humans, animals, and plants. 

Some companies are trying to find ways to reuse or recycle the by-products, instead of putting them into landfill or garbage dumps as waste.

Animal "by-products" are produced by slaughterhouses (places designed to kill animals for food). Animal by-products are the parts of the animals that cannot be eaten by humans. Animal by-products are sometimes included in non-human foods, such as pet food or animal feed (for farm animals).


</doc>
<doc id="22596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22596" title="Toxic waste">
Toxic waste

Toxic waste is any sort of waste that is harmful to people, plants, or animals, but usually it is said about waste that hurts people. Toxic wastes are usually liquid chemicals. They are made as by-products of making other things, usually by manufacturing but sometimes they are chemicals used for farming.


</doc>
<doc id="22610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22610" title="Category:1975 movies">
Category:1975 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1975.


</doc>
<doc id="22611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22611" title="Category:1883 books">
Category:1883 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1883.


</doc>
<doc id="22612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22612" title="Category:1028">
Category:1028


</doc>
<doc id="22613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22613" title="Category:1048">
Category:1048


</doc>
<doc id="22615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22615" title="Category:1072">
Category:1072


</doc>
<doc id="22616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22616" title="Category:1143">
Category:1143


</doc>
<doc id="22618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22618" title="Category:1218">
Category:1218


</doc>
<doc id="22619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22619" title="Category:1229">
Category:1229


</doc>
<doc id="22621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22621" title="Category:1244">
Category:1244


</doc>
<doc id="22622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22622" title="Category:1247">
Category:1247


</doc>
<doc id="22624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22624" title="Category:1253">
Category:1253


</doc>
<doc id="22625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22625" title="Category:1263">
Category:1263


</doc>
<doc id="22626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22626" title="Category:1282">
Category:1282


</doc>
<doc id="22627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22627" title="Category:1291">
Category:1291


</doc>
<doc id="22628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22628" title="Category:1323">
Category:1323


</doc>
<doc id="22629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22629" title="Category:1399">
Category:1399


</doc>
<doc id="22630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22630" title="Category:1442">
Category:1442


</doc>
<doc id="22631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22631" title="Category:1536 births">
Category:1536 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1536.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="22632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22632" title="Category:1626">
Category:1626


</doc>
<doc id="22633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22633" title="Category:1627">
Category:1627


</doc>
<doc id="22634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22634" title="Category:1641">
Category:1641


</doc>
<doc id="22635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22635" title="Category:1667">
Category:1667


</doc>
<doc id="22636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22636" title="Category:1680">
Category:1680

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year 1680.


</doc>
<doc id="22637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22637" title="Category:1717">
Category:1717


</doc>
<doc id="22638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22638" title="Category:1718">
Category:1718


</doc>
<doc id="22639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22639" title="Category:1748">
Category:1748


</doc>
<doc id="22640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22640" title="Category:1752">
Category:1752


</doc>
<doc id="22641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22641" title="Category:1754">
Category:1754


</doc>
<doc id="22642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22642" title="Category:1755">
Category:1755


</doc>
<doc id="22643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22643" title="Category:1757">
Category:1757


</doc>
<doc id="22644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22644" title="Category:1754 births">
Category:1754 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1754.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="22645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22645" title="Category:1838 deaths">
Category:1838 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="22646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22646" title="Category:1761">
Category:1761


</doc>
<doc id="22647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22647" title="Category:1762">
Category:1762


</doc>
<doc id="22648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22648" title="Category:1763">
Category:1763


</doc>
<doc id="22649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22649" title="Category:1768">
Category:1768


</doc>
<doc id="22650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22650" title="Category:1771">
Category:1771


</doc>
<doc id="22651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22651" title="Category:1772">
Category:1772


</doc>
<doc id="22652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22652" title="Space Runaway Ideon">
Space Runaway Ideon

Space Runaway Ideon was an animated television series from 1980. It lasted for 39 episodes before being canceled. It was originally aired in Japan, where it was well known. It also had two movies called "A Contact" and "Be Invoked".


</doc>
<doc id="22653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22653" title="Comic book">
Comic book

Comic books are books with comics, with pictures that make a story. They have small pictures and words to tell a story. Comics were started in the 1900's. Some famous examples are Spider-Man and Batman. Some comic companies are Marvel Comics and DC Comics. Many comic books are about superheroes, but many others are about other things. Very often, characters in books, video games, movies and television appear in comics, and sometimes comic book characters are used in movies, TV shows or video games. 

There are three different kinds of comic books: single issues that are usually 32 pages long are called comic books. These are printed like a magazine, with the pages folded and stapled together. A bigger book that has several comics inside of it is called a trade paperback. These have spines like a book and are glued together. A bigger comic book that is bound like a trade paperback but is all new, instead of collecting older comics, is called a graphic novel.

In English speaking countries, you read the speech bubbles left to right. Then you read the row below it left to right. This is different from Japanese comics, called manga.
Some famous comics are:



</doc>
<doc id="22654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22654" title="Spider-Man">
Spider-Man

Spider-Man is a fictional superhero in the Marvel Comics universe. He was created by writer and editor Stan Lee and artist and co-plotter Steve Ditko. He first appeared in "Amazing Fantasy" #15 in August 1962. The idea was that he would be an orphan being raised by his Aunt May and Uncle Ben as an ordinary teenager. He would deal with the normal struggles of being young as well as the struggles of being of a costumed crime fighter. His powers were that of super strength and agility, the ability to cling to almost every surface, the ability to shoot spider-webs using an device that he invented which he calls "web-shooters," and reacting to danger quickly with his "spider-sense", enabling him to combat many foes similar to that of a spider.

Spider-Man first appeared in the early 1960s when teenagers in superhero comic books were usually relegated to the role of sidekick to the protagonist. The series featured Peter Parker, a teenage high school student who sometimes suffered rejection, inadequacy, and loneliness, that most young readers could easily relate to. Unlike some teen heroes such as Bucky and Robin, Spider-Man never had any adult mentors Captain America and Batman to teach him to be an superhero and thus he had to learn for himself that "with great power comes great responsibility" — a quote that he would cherish from his late Uncle Ben after he died.

Marvel has featured Spider-Man in several comic book series such as "The Amazing Spider-Man", "Spectacular Spider-Man" and "Sensational Spider-Man" and so on over the years. Peter Parker has developed himself from shy high school student to troubled but outgoing college student to married high school teacher but his most typical adult role is being a single freelance photographer. He was even part of the group the New Avengers, and the Fantastic Four. Spider-Man has had a lot of nicknames over the years such as being referred to as "Spidey," "web-slinger," "wall-crawler," or "web-head."

Spider-Man has been one of the most popular and commercially successful superheroes. Often considered to be Marvel's flagship character and company mascot, he has appeared in many forms of media such as animation and movies.

The first time that Spider-Man (who is also known as) Peter Parker appeared was in the Amazing Fantasy #15 comic book in August 1962. Because of the success it had, Spider-Man obtains his own comic book series called The Amazing Spider-Man and others would soon be created such as Spectacular Spider-Man, Sensational Spider-Man and Ultimate Spider-Man.

In Peter Parker's first appearance, he is introduced as an orphaned science whiz teenager living with his aunt and uncle in the Forest Hills section of New York City. He is a brilliant student but also gets picked on by his peers who accuse him of being a bookworm, and constantly gets bullied by Eugene "Flash" Thompson, who calls him "Puny Parker" and humiliate him daily. One day, he is bitten by a radioactive spider which then gives him his powers that turn him to Spider-Man.

As Spider-Man, he then becomes a successful TV star. The career then goes to his head that one day at a studio he refuses to stop a thief, saying that it is the job of the police, not that of a star. He then returns home to learn that his beloved Uncle Ben, has been murdered and as Spider-Man he angrily sets off to capture the killer. When he does, he is horrified to find that the man is none other than the Burglar he refused to subdue. Learning that with great power comes great responsibility, Spider-Man becomes a vigilante. After his uncle died, Peter and his aunt become desperate for money, so he gets a job as a photographer at the Daily Bugle selling photos to J. Jonah Jameson, who seems to be jealous of Spider-Man and makes Spider-Man look bad in the paper. As he battles many enemies for his first time, Parker finds it difficult juggling both his personal life and costumed adventures at the same time. In time, he would then graduate from high school, and enroll at Empire State University, where he meets roommate and best friend Harry Osborn and his second girlfriend (having been romantically involved with Betty Brant before) Gwen Stacy, Peter also discovers his best friend Harry has a drug problem and that Harry's father is revealed to be one of Spider-Man's nemesis the Green Goblin, Peter then attempts to give up his costumed identity. In the course of his adventures though Spider-Man has made quite a few of friends and contacts within the superhero community, who often come to his aid when he faces problems that he cannot solve on his own. 

His loved ones are frequently endangered by enemies which turns out to be an alien symbiote. After noticing the symbiotes true nature Peter then rejects the symbiote after a difficult struggle. In a controversial storyline, Peter becomes convinced that Ben Reilly, the Scarlet Spider who is actually a clone of Peter created by his college professor Miles Warren is the real Peter Parker, and that he, Peter, is actually the clone. Peter gives up the Spider-Man identity to Reilly for a while until Reilly is killed by the returning Green Goblin and revealed to be the clone after all. He for a little bit develops additional spider-like abilities including biological web-shooters, toxic stingers that extend from his forearms, the ability to stick individuals to his back, enhanced Spider-sense and night vision, and increased strength and speed. He even becomes a member of the New Avengers, and reveals his civilian identity to the world, which causes more problems such as Aunt May being shot. Due to his Aunt May almost dying, his marriage to Mary Jane and public unmasking are later erased due to a deal made with the demon Mephisto, resulting in several adjustments to the time line, such as the resurrection of Harry Osborn and Spider-Man original powers. After months of just Peter knowing Spider-Man's identity he then unmasks himself to the New Avengers and the Fantastic Four.

Spider-Man is one of the most well know superheroes ever created. He is normally considered to Marvel Comic's flagship character. His quote "With Great Power Comes Great Responsibility" is one of the most popular superhero quotes ever used. He has also been adopted in other media such as television and video games and most popularly Sam Raimi's film trilogy which includes Spider-Man, Spider-Man 2, and Spider-Man 3.

Spider-Man has appeared on television numerous times, in both live-action and animated television programs. In animation he has appeared in an 1967 television series named after him, he also appeared in "Spidey Super Stories" by the electric company, he appeared as an guest star in an "Spider-Woman" animated series. There was also an 1981 animated series of him and then an animated series called "Spider-Man and his Amazing Friends" soon after. And then in the Marvel Animation Age in 1994 there was another series about him and there wa an spin off of it called "Spider-Man Unlimited". After the Sam Raimi movies there was an animated series of Spider-Man in MTV called "Spider-Man: The New Animated Series" and in 2008 there is an animated series called "The Spectacular Spider-Man". It is also said that he will appear in "The Super Hero Squad Show". In live action there is "Amazing Spider-Man" and an tokatsu series of Spider-Man in Japan.

Supporting characters in the Spider-Man series include:
Villains in the Spider man series include:



</doc>
<doc id="22655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22655" title="Peanuts">
Peanuts

<noinclude>

Peanuts was a comic strip made by Charles M. Schulz. It was about a boy named Charlie Brown, his dog named Snoopy, and the lives of their friends. It started in 1950 and ended in 2000 when Schulz died.



</doc>
<doc id="22657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22657" title="Eddie Cantor">
Eddie Cantor

Eddie Cantor (January 31, 1892 - October 10, 1964) was an American comedian, singer, actor, songwriter. Familiar to Broadway, radio and early television audiences, this "Apostle of Pep" was regarded almost as a family member by millions because his top-rated radio shows revealed intimate stories and amusing anecdotes about his wife Ida and five daughters. His eye-rolling song-and-dance routines eventually led to his nickname, Banjo Eyes, and in 1933, the artist Frederick J. Garner caricatured Cantor with large round and white eyes resembling the drum-like pot of a banjo. Cantor's eyes became his trademark, often exaggerated in illustrations, and leading to his appearance on Broadway in the musical "Banjo Eyes" (1941). He was the original singer of 1929 hit song "Makin' Whoopie".


</doc>
<doc id="22658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22658" title="Days of Our Lives">
Days of Our Lives

Days of Our Lives is a popular, TV show on the NBC television network. It is one hour long and is broadcast during the day. Betty and Ted Corday made the show in 1965. Two companies, Corday Productions and Sony Pictures Television make "Days of Our Lives". In November 2005, the show celebrated 40 years on TV.

"Days of Our Lives" takes place in the make-believe city of Salem. The main families on the show have the last names "Brady" and "Horton". Many good and bad things happened to the Brady family and the Horton family. One character named "Stefano DiMera" does some of the bad things that happen to characters on this show. Stefano is still on the show.

"Days of Our Lives" has many people around the world who like it. Some people who watch the show every day have made websites with information about the show. One popular website with information about "Days of Our Lives" is at http://www.soapoperafan.com/days/



</doc>
<doc id="22662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22662" title="Recorder">
Recorder

The recorder is a musical instrument that is a type of flute. It is shaped like a tube with one end bigger than the other end. A recorder player puts the bigger end in their mouth and blows into it.

In Europe, people started to play the recorder in medieval times. The recorder was often used by musicians to sound like bird songs. Purcell, Bach, Telemann and Vivaldi all wrote music for the recorder. By the 1900s very few people played the recorder. They liked the flute and other instruments better than the recorder. These instruments are louder than the recorder and are better for playing difficult music.

In the 1900s more people started to learn the recorder again. One reason was that people wanted to play old music on old kinds of instruments. A second reason was that the recorder is a good instrument for children to learn about music.

Whistles are very old instruments. People have found some whistles that were made in the Iron Age. A recorder is a type of whistle. It has holes for seven fingers and one thumb. It also has one end bigger than the other. The first recorders were made in the 1500s. Some remains of these have been found in Germany, the Netherlands and Greece.

Many people played the recorder in Europe in the 1500s and 1600s. King Henry VIII of England had 76 recorders. William Shakespeare talks about recorders in his play "Hamlet" and John Milton talks about them in his poem "Paradise Lost". Recorders from that time are now called Renaissance recorders.

In the 1700s the people who made recorders tried new ways to make them sound better. They also wanted them to play more difficult music. Recorders from this time are called Baroque recorders. They were thinner than Renaissance recorders. They were also made in several parts that fitted together. In the picture at the top of the page, one of the recorders is in three parts.

In the 1800s people preferred to play the flute and clarinet instead of the recorder. Flutes are good for playing music which has a large range of notes. Flutes are also better for playing music which needs many chromatic notes. 

In the 1900s people wanted to play old music with old kinds of instrument. In England, Arnold Dolmetsch was one of the people who was famous for this. Other musicians also began to play the recorder at serious music concerts. Some of these people were Frans Brüggen, Hans-Martin Linde, Bernard Kranis and David Munrow. In modern times, people have written new music for the recorder. Some of these people are Paul Hindemith, Luciano Berio, John Tavener, Michael Tippett, Benjamin Britten, Leonard Bernstein, Gordon Jacob and Edmund Rubbra.

The recorder is sometimes used in popular music. The Beatles played the recorder in their song "Fool on the Hill" and the Rolling Stones used a recorder in "Ruby Tuesday (song)". 
Plastic recorders were invented in the 20th century. They are cheap and vary greatly in quality depending on the manufacturer. They are easy instruments to play simple music. Many elementary schools use plastic recorders to teach music to children.

Recorders are made in different sizes. The lowest note of most recorders is either C or F. This is the note that is heard when the player covers all the finger holes and the thumb hole. The soprano recorder is the size of recorder which is usually played in schools, also known as a Descant. The lowest note of the soprano recorder is C. Some recorders are smaller than the soprano recorder but are not common. The alto recorder is bigger than the soprano recorder. Its lowest is F. The other main sizes are the tenor recorder (with lowest note C) and the bass (with lowest note F). Instruments larger than the bass are made but are not common. These include the Great Bass, Contrabass, Subgreatbass and Subcontrabass. Recorders higher than a soprano recorder include the Sopranino and Garklein recorders.

The recorder is a very social instrument. Many people enjoy playing in large groups. Groups often play music that is written for several different sizes of instrument. Often there is a separate musical part for soprano, alto, tenor and bass recorders. Some people play in recorder orchestras. These sometimes have 50 or 60 players with nine sizes of instrument.


</doc>
<doc id="22665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22665" title="1067">
1067


</doc>
<doc id="22666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22666" title="Adolphe Sax">
Adolphe Sax

Antoine-Joseph (known as Adolphe) Sax (November 6, 1814 – February 4, 1894) was a Belgian inventor, best known for inventing the saxophone.

Books about Adolphe Sax :


</doc>
<doc id="22668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22668" title="Unforgiven">
Unforgiven

Unforgiven is a 1992 western movie directed by and starring Clint Eastwood. It ranks #98 on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies and won the Best Picture Academy Award.


</doc>
<doc id="22669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22669" title="Bucharest">
Bucharest

Bucharest is the capital city of the country of Romania. It is the largest city in the country. The city has a population of 1.9 million people.


</doc>
<doc id="22670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22670" title="Tocantins">
Tocantins

Tocantins can refer to: 

There are also some small Brazilian cities called "Tocantins".


</doc>
<doc id="22671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22671" title="Avalanche">
Avalanche

An avalanche is a phenomenon of nature. It is linked to snow. When there is a lot of snow on a mountain, some of the snow may come down the mountain, for some reason. This is then called an avalanche. People talk about avalanches because they may be dangerous to skiers, and other people doing winter sports.

Big avalanches may carry stones,boulders and trees with them. They may bury people under them. If the people are not found rapidly enough by rescue teams they will die of suffocation (not getting enough air) or of hypothermia (freezing cold).

The chance of surviving an avalanche is as follows:

In Europe, the avalanche risk is widely rated on the following scale, which was adopted in April 1993 to replace the earlier non-standard national schemes. Descriptions were last updated in May 2003 to enhance uniformity pdf.

[1] Stability:

[2] additional load:

Gradient:

Avalanche size:


</doc>
<doc id="22673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22673" title="Foot (unit)">
Foot (unit)

Foot is a unit of measurement of length (how long something is). It is one of the U.S. customary and imperial units. Sometimes it is called a "U.S. foot" because it is used most often in the United States. It is called a foot, because it is about the size of a man's foot. This measurement is widely used in America, Britain, Ireland, and other countries of the former British Empire.


In some countries, people often measure height (how tall a person is) in feet and inches. If a person is "five foot eleven", this means that person is 5 feet and 11 inches, or about 180 centimeters. The height is written "5' 11"".

The abbreviation for (the short way of writing) "foot" is ' or ft. 


</doc>
<doc id="22674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22674" title="Acre">
Acre

An acre is an English unit of area, which is also used in the United States and some Commonwealth countries. It is most often used to describe areas of land.

An acre is equivalent to approximately:

Originally, it was seen as the area of land a farmer could plough with an ox in a day. Since this definition depended on the farmer and the ox, it looked variable. Therefore, Edward I, Edward III, Henry VIII and George IV passed laws fixing its size. The Commonwealth countries, including the United states then also introduce these laws.


</doc>
<doc id="22676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22676" title="Erfurt massacre">
Erfurt massacre

The Erfurt massacre was a series of shootings that happened at the Gutenberg Gymnasium in Erfurt, Germany, on 26 April 2002. 

A boy that had been expelled from the school, Robert Steinhäuser, was the person who did all the shooting. In anger, he came into the Gymnasium, and shot dead 12 teachers, one secretary, two students, and a police officer. 

After a teacher caught him and put him in an empty room, Steinhäuser shot and killed himself.

In total, 17 people were killed.


</doc>
<doc id="22677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22677" title="Gymnasium (school)">
Gymnasium (school)

The Gymnasium is a form of higher education in Western Europe, especially in Germany.

In North America and in Britain, a "gymnasium" (or gym) is a large room in a school or community center where people can do exercises, do gymnastics, and play indoor sports such as volleyball and basketball.



</doc>
<doc id="22678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22678" title="Huascarán">
Huascarán

Huascarán is the highest mountain in Peru, and the fourth-highest mountain in South America. The top of it is 22,205 feet (6,768 meters) high. It is located in the Ancash Region of Peru. Huascarán has turned into a tourist attraction for mountain climbers.

The mountain is all that is left of an ancient volcano. The volcano is now extinct, and has been getting smaller and smaller. As recently as 1970, the Ancash Earthquake caused a big part of the mountain to crumble and fall off. That part of the mountain was all rock and ice, and it killed almost 17,000 people in small towns around the mountain.


</doc>
<doc id="22684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22684" title="1490">
1490



</doc>
<doc id="22685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22685" title="1571">
1571



</doc>
<doc id="22686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22686" title="401">
401


</doc>
<doc id="22687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22687" title="1068">
1068


</doc>
<doc id="22689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22689" title="Australian Rules Football">
Australian Rules Football

Australian rules football is a sport created in Australia. It is the national sport and is the most popular sport in Australia. The main league of Australian rules football is the Australian Football League.

Before to Europeans came to Australia, native Australians played a form of the game where two groups of men would kick a possum skin "ball" around. The Aborigines would drop the ball onto their foot to kick it, and if a person caught the ball before it touched the ground he would get a free kick. Some players jumped as high as five foot to take catches, in the same way as players today jump to catch the ball for a mark.

In 1858, Tom Wills, a former student of the Rugby school and Cambridge College, created a set of football rules that were like a cross between rugby, soccer and Gaelic football. He made up the game for cricketers to keep in shape during the off-season (winter). Wills had help in making up the game from other people like his cousin H.C.A. Harrison , and W.J. Hammersly and J.B. Thompson. 

Wills grew up with Indigenous Australians. He spoke the language of the people who lived near him and played with the children. It has been suggested that Australian Rules Football is based in part on "Marn Grook", an Aboriginal game with some similar rules to Australian Rules Football. Because the indigenous people Wills played with as a child would have played "Marn Grook", Wills would have been influenced by this game when creating the rules for Australian Rules Football.

The Melbourne Football Club was founded on 14 May 1859; the Melbourne Football Club is one of the oldest surviving football clubs in the world. A game of football was played between Scotch College and Melbourne Grammar School. It was played over three days on an oval next to the present day Melbourne Cricket Ground, and the two schools have played an annual game ever since. This game became known as Melbourne Rules Football, one of many local varieties of football that existed at that time, another notable one being Sheffield Rules Football. Then following its decision to not join either the association rules (1863) or rugby rules (1871), it became known as Victorian Rules, although it still resembled closely to the former two rule sets. Than in the 1880s as rugby and association rules began to diverge in a much greater way, Victorian Rules which resembled the 1850s type of football that both rugby and the association had based their rules on remained much the same except for moving to oval fields from rectangular fields and eventually introducing more posts. After the sport became popular in other states, people started calling it "Australian Rules".

The Victorian Football League ( VFL ) was created in 1896. The next year, the first official games were played. The first clubs were Carlton, Collingwood, Essendon, Fitzroy, Geelong, Melbourne, St Kilda, and South Melbourne. In 1908, Richmond and University joined. University left after the 1914 season. In 1925, Footscray, Hawthorn and North Melbourne joined the VFL.

Years later other teams joined in: 

In 1990 the Victorian Football League was changed to the Australian Football League (AFL). Footscray changed its name to the Western Bulldogs in 1997. North Melbourne changed its name to the Kangaroos in 1999, but changed back in 2008.

Football is the most popular sport in Australia, with crowd attendances of 50-80,000 people common to normal home and away matches and capacity crowds of 100,000 people at the home of football the MCG during the finals and special matches. The record crowd still remains at 121,696, who watched that most history-making of all Grand Finals in 1970, between Carlton and Collingwood, where Carlton came from a 44 point deficit at half-time to win the game by implementing an entirely new system of play, handballing out of the backline, which changed the game forever, and marked the beginnings of the transition of the game from one of a 'territorial' base to 'possession football'.

There are 16 teams in the AFL . Each team has 22 players during game day with team lists of 40-45 players.During the game, each team has 18 players on the field, consisting of 6 forwards, 3 centres, 6 backmen, and 3 followers. The 4 remaining players are reserves the can interchange with any other player in the team as often as the coach wants.

Every game consists of 4 quarters, being 20 minutes and overtime (stoppage time, time-keepers acting upon central umpire signals to determine how long). After every quarter the teams swap direction. The quarter is started when the umpire blows his whistle and bounces the ball in the middle of the field (similar to a basketball "tip")and opposing players try to tap or punch the ball to their team-mates.
The idea of the game is to kick more goals than the other team. At each end of the field are 4 poles. Players score points by kicking the ball between the poles. A goal is a kick between the centermost posts. It is worth 6 points. A "Behind" (worth 1 point) is a kick that goes between the outer posts. Players can bounce the ball and hit it with their hand (handball it) to other players . If a player catches a ball after the ball has been kicked in the air by another player, then this is a "mark" and the player cannot be tackled until he plays on.

It is the only "football" code where the major score can ONLY be scored with the foot.

Present teams
The AFL is looking at starting new teams based on the Gold Coast and in Western Sydney. The Gold Coast team is planned to join the competition by 2011.











</doc>
<doc id="22690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22690" title="Australian Football League">
Australian Football League

The Australian Football League (AFL) is the Australian national league in the sport of Australian Rules Football. The league is the most popular sports competition in Australia. In 2005 6,283,788 people watched a game in a stadium.
It was known as the Victorian Football League from 1897 to 1989, when it changed its name to the Australian Football League, after Australian rules football became a national sport.
The 16 teams play against each other in 22 rounds between late March and early September. These matches are followed by a series of finals matches which end up in the two best teams playing off for the premiership in the AFL Grand Final, one of the largest domestic club championship events in the world.

The chief executive is Andrew Demetriou.

In 2011, there are nine clubs from Melbourne, one from Victoria's second largest city, Geelong, two teams from South Australia, two from Western Australia, two from Queensland and one from Sydney, New South Wales.

AFL is the dominant league in television, print and radio news in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, Northern Territory and Tasmania. Also Australian rules football is the most participated football code in these states and territories.

The popularity of AFL is getting bigger in the states of New South Wales and Queensland. This happened after the finals being won by the Brisbane Lions (2001, 2002 and 2003) and Sydney Swans (2005). With the success of these sides, interest in Australian rules football has grown rapidly in these states in recent years.


! Club
! Nickname
! City
! Home Ground
! Entered Competition
! No. of Premierships
! Notes

In 1996, twelve Hall of Fame members were declared "Legends of the Game". Now, each year another member of the Hall of Fame is declared a legend. The following is a list of "Legends of the Game".



</doc>
<doc id="22691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22691" title="Urbain Grandier">
Urbain Grandier

Urbain Grandier (born 1590 in Bouère, Mayenne, France ; died April 18,1634 in Loudun, France) was a free-thinking cleric. A satirical publication against Richelieu was attributed to him. After this, Pierre-Martin de Laubardement, a statesman was charged to lead the process against Grandier in 1633. He was charged of having bewitched the ursuline nuns of Loudun. They became obsessed by him. His friend, Claude Quillet agreed to defend him in court, but without success. 

He was condemned to burn at the stake as a witch in 1634.



</doc>
<doc id="22693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22693" title="Cardinal Richelieu">
Cardinal Richelieu

Armand Jean du Plessis, better known as Cardinal Richelieu (9 September 1585–4 December 1642) was a French clergyman, noble, and statesman. His full name is "Armand Jean du Plessis, cardinal-duc de Richelieu et de Fronsac".

In order to keep the diocese of Luçon, Armand Jean needed to become a monk. He joined the Grande Chartreuse, the main monastery of the Carthusian order. This monastery is located in the Isère département, near Grenoble. As a comparison, Luçon is near La Roche-sur-Yon. 

He was consecrated as a bishop in 1607. For this he obtained a dispensation of the pope; at age 21, he was too young to become a bishop. He later entered politics and became a Secretary of State in 1616. Richelieu soon rose in both the Church and the state. He became a Cardinal in 1622. He became King Louis XIII's chief minister in 1624. He remained in office until his death in 1642; then Jules Cardinal Mazarin became chief minister. 

The Cardinal de Richelieu was often known by the title of the King's "Chief Minister". As a result, he is sometimes said to be the world's first Prime Minister. He sought to consolidate royal power and crush domestic factions. By restraining the power of the nobility, he transformed France into a strongly centralized state. His chief foreign policy objective was to check the power of the Austro-Spanish Habsburg dynasty; although a Roman Catholic cardinal, he did not hesitate to make alliances with Protestant rulers. With these alliances, he tried to achieve this goal. His tenure was marked by the Thirty Years' War that engulfed Europe. 

As an advocate for Samuel de Champlain and of the keeping of Quebec, he founded the Compagnie des Cent-Associés and saw the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye return Quebec to French rule under de Champlain, after the settlement had been captured by the Kirkes in 1629. This in part allowed the colony to eventually develop into the heartland of French-speaking culture in North America.

Richelieu was also famous for his patronage of the arts; most notably, he founded the Académie française, the learned society responsible for matters of the French language. Richelieu is also known by the sobriquet "l'Éminence rouge" ("the Red Eminence"), from the red shade of a cardinal's vestments and the style "eminence" as a cardinal.


</doc>
<doc id="22704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22704" title="Belaying">
Belaying

Belaying is a way to hold and control a rope for a person who is rock climbing. A climber has to be attached to a rope so they do not fall very far. A person on the ground who is belaying is called a "belayer".

The belayer usually puts the rope through a "belay device", which lets the rope move through the device in one direction (as the climber being belayed goes up). If the climber falls, the device lets the belayer also hold the rope still, so the climber hangs in the air but does not hit the ground. 

The belayer can hold the whole weight of the climber by using only a little force, and can even stop a long fall.


</doc>
<doc id="22705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22705" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Thrills">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Thrills

Part of the AFI 100 Years... series, AFI's 100 Years... 100 Thrills is a list of the top 100 thrilling movies in American cinema. The American Film Institute presented it on June 12, 2001.



</doc>
<doc id="22706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22706" title="Help:Email confirmation">
Help:Email confirmation

To avoid the possibility of spammer abuse, now requires that user e-mail addresses be validated prior to the use of e-mail features. This ensures that:

This only restricts user-to-user e-mail. You can log in, edit pages, etc without confirming your address (and you are not required to enter an e-mail address at all to register; it remains completely optional).

If your account was registered prior to March 2, 2006, your existing address (if any) has "not" been automatically confirmed. You can check your address confirmation status in and can confirm it from there.

Accounts on each wiki are separate, and if you have multiple accounts you will need to confirm each separately.






</doc>
<doc id="22707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22707" title="South Vietnam">
South Vietnam

South Vietnam is a former country, located in the south of present-day Vietnam, that existed from 1954 to 1976. The country lay south of the local Demilitarized Zone, and North Vietnam was situated to the north of it.

As the Republic of Vietnam, it was ruled first by the unpopular Ngo Dinh Diem (Ngô Đình Diệm) and then by a military dictatorship.

The division of Vietnam took place during the Geneva Conference of 1954. In 1975, North Vietnam took over this country and renamed its largest city, Saigon, into Ho Chi Minh City.


</doc>
<doc id="22708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22708" title="Robert Ludlum">
Robert Ludlum

Robert Ludlum (May 25 1927 - March 12 2001) was an American writer. He is best known as the author of "The Bourne Identity" from 1980, which was made into a movie in 2001.



</doc>
<doc id="22710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22710" title="1170s">
1170s



</doc>
<doc id="22712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22712" title="Arab people">
Arab people

The Arabs (Arabic: العرب ʻarab) are an Arabian ethnicity widespread in the Middle East and North Africa. Arabic is one of the semitic languages.

There are three points which decide whether someone is considered Arab or not:

There are many people who can be called Arabs by these points who do not think of themselves as Arab. One such example includes the original Egyptians (Coptics) and the Syriacs (Aramaics/Assyrians). Although they live in countries like Syria or Egypt which is part of the Arab League and speak the official language-Arabic, they are different cultural groups. They have their own languages, culture, identity and churches, such as the Coptic Orthodox and the Syriac Catholic and Orthodox churches. Even though many have assimilated to Arab society, they have their own heritage that spans 3,000 years. 

Just because they live in a certain place and the government of those places act in a certain way, that does not make people a different race. 

In Islamic and Jewish tradition, Arabs are a Semitic people who trace their ancestry from Ishmael, a son of the ancient patriarch Abraham and Hagar. Medieval Arab genealogists separate the Arabs into two groups: the "original Arabs" of South Arabia, descending from Qahtan (identified with the biblical Joktan) and the "Arabized Arabs" (musta`ribah) of North Arabia, descending from Adnan who is descended from Ishmael.



</doc>
<doc id="22718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22718" title="Template:Gutenberg">
Template:Gutenberg

Free eBook "" at Project Gutenberg

</doc>
<doc id="22720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22720" title="Mebibyte">
Mebibyte

A mebibyte is a unit of measure. It represents 1024 * 1024 bytes. 

A mebibyte (a contraction of mega binary byte) is a unit of information or computer storage, abbreviated MiB.

The mebibyte is closely related to the megabyte (MB). This can either be a synonym for mebibyte, or refer to 10 bytes = 1,000,000 bytes, depending on context (see binary prefix for background). The two numbers are relatively close together, but mistaking the two has nevertheless occasionally led to problems. 

The unit was defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) in December 1998. Use of mebibyte and related units is strongly endorsed by IEEE and CIPM and is slowly becoming more common.

One mebibyte equals 1024 (= 2) kibibytes, and 1024 mebibytes equal one gibibyte.

Mibibyte is a common misspelling, presumably from the "i" in the abbreviation or confusion about how the surrounding prefixes (i.e. "kibi" and "gibi") were actually formed. The "i" is actually from the end of the prefix. Tebi- and pebi- are similarly abbreviated Ti- and Pi-, but they are not usually misspelled, as storage sizes (and corresponding terms) currently are only this large in specialized situations.




</doc>
<doc id="22725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22725" title="Clergy">
Clergy

Clergy are people who have an office in a Christian church or other religion. Clergy would also give the king advice on war.


</doc>
<doc id="22728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22728" title="Acre (state)">
Acre (state)

Acre is a state in the North Region of Brazil. It borders other two states, Amazonas and Rondônia, and two countries, Bolivia and Peru. Its capital city is Rio Branco and other important cities are: Cruzeiro do Sul , Tarauacá, Sena Madureira, and Brasiléia.

The state is mostly covered by jungle of Amazon Rainforest. There are many rivers in Acre, some of them are Juruá, Purus River, Acre River, Tarauacá, Muru, Embirá, and Xapuri.

The economy is based on agriculture, cattle animal husbandry, and extractivism of rubber and chestnut.

Until the start of the 20th century, Acre was a territory of Bolivia. But, since the 19th century, most people from Acre were Brazilian people, and they created an independent state. 

In 1889, the Bolivians tried to control the area again and there were fights.

In november 17, 1903, Acre become a Brazilian territory and in june 15, 1962 it was unified and became a state.


</doc>
<doc id="22730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22730" title="Roller coaster">
Roller coaster

The roller coaster (some people say the simple form coaster) is a kind of amusement ride. A roller coaster is like a train. It has a number of carriages that travel on a set of tracks. This track has hills and valleys (hills and valleys are parts of the track that go up and down), and sometimes has other features that will turn the train upside-down. The track can be made from wood or steel. Some roller coasters are made for children, so they do not travel very fast. Other roller coasters are made very tall and they travel very fast. Riders are generally restrained in place with a bar, a belt, or something similar.

A roller coaster works because of gravity, a force that pulls things down to the ground. Most roller coaster trains are pulled to the top of a hill with a machine. The train will slide down the track, which has a number of hills and valleys. As it slides down a hill, it will travel faster.

In the United States, LaMarcus Adna Thompson patented the first roller coaster on January 20, 1865. He named his ride the "Switchback Railway," and workers pulled the carriage to the top of the track. The first modern steel roller coaster was the Matterhorn Bobsleds at Disneyland. It opened in 1959.


</doc>
<doc id="22733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22733" title="Zimbabwean dollar">
Zimbabwean dollar

The Zimbabwe dollar was a currency for Zimbabwe from 1980 to 2009. Zimbabwe had the highest rate of inflation in the world. The rate of inflation grew to 231,150,888.87% in July 2008.

Zimbabwe now uses currencies from other countries, such as the United States Dollar.


</doc>
<doc id="22734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22734" title="Bahia">
Bahia

Bahia is a state in the northeast area of Brazil on the Atlantic Ocean coast.

The capital city of Bahia is Salvador. Other cities where many people live are Feira de Santana, Vitória da Conquista, Itabuna, Ilhéus, and Juazeiro. Almost all of Bahia is 200 m above the sea level. The São Francisco River is the longest river in Bahia. Salvador was the capital of Brazil from 1549 until 1763.

Bahia is the sixth richest Brazilian state. The economy of Bahia is based on industry, agriculture, animal husbandry, tourism, mining and services.


</doc>
<doc id="22735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22735" title="Body modification">
Body modification

Body modification (or body alteration) is when a person changes their body in a way that lasts forever or for a long time. There are many different kinds of body modification, like piercing, circumcision, or tattoos. Almost all cultures do some kind of body modification.

People who do not like body modification sometimes call it "disfigurement" or "mutilation." They believe that if someone changes their body, it is wrong and they are doing something dangerous or unethical.

Body modification is done for different reasons. Religions might tell people that they should change their bodies to look a certain way. Other people with body modifications might just like the way the body modifications look, or how they feel good during sex.






</doc>
<doc id="22736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22736" title="Serial killer">
Serial killer

A serial killer is someone who murders several people at different times (similar killers of more than one person are mass murderers and spree killers). The victims are usually people the serial killer does not know, and the killer commits his crimes to get a certain kind of excitement or other feeling. He usually has no practical motive such as robbery or revenge.

"Serial killer" first became a commonly used phrase for this kind of killers in the 1970s. This was the result of the crimes of people like Ted Bundy and David Berkowitz ("Son of Sam"). Jack the Ripper is thought by many to be one of the first serial killers that many people knew about, even though his victims were killed long before the phrase was invented.

A serial killer's crimes are nearly always alike in some ways. The killer may only attack a certain type of person, for instance women of a certain age or appearance (young or old, blonde or dark-haired). He may always use the same kind of weapon to kill his victims, or may treat them in a certain manner, such as tying them up with the same kind of rope or adhesive tape. Some serial killers have had very strange habits which leave evidence of their work at each crime; for instance Albert de Salvo, the Boston Strangler, would tie the cord with which he had strangled a woman around her neck in a special bow. To law enforcement officers a serial killer's habits are known as his signature, and they are always valuable leads in detecting who he is and capturing him.

Some of the worst serial killers have been doctors. Harold Shipman, a British general practitioner, is thought to have killed up to 250 of his patients. John Bodkin Adams, also British, is thought to have killed 163 patients.


</doc>
<doc id="22737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22737" title="World Wide Fund for Nature">
World Wide Fund for Nature

The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) is an international environmental organization based in Switzerland. Their mascot is the Giant Panda. It is the world's largest independent conservation organization with over 5 million supporters worldwide, working in more than 90 countries, supporting 15,000 conservation and environmental projects around the world. It is a charity, with approximately 90% of its funding coming from voluntary donations by private individuals and businesses.

The group says its mission is "to halt and reverse the destruction of our natural environment". Currently, much of its work focuses on the conservation of three biomes that contain most of the world's biodiversity: forests, freshwater ecosystems, and oceans and coasts. Among other issues, it is also concerned with endangered species, pollution and climate change. The organization runs more than 1,200 field projects worldwide in any given year.
fk


</doc>
<doc id="22738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22738" title="Category:Crime">
Category:Crime

Articles about crime


</doc>
<doc id="22751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22751" title="Deforestation">
Deforestation

Deforestation is when forests are lost because people want to make farms, ranches and cities. Without the forest, the habitats of the animals are lost and many animals die. It is also a result of global warming.

Deforestation is the removal of trees for requirements of growing population. They remove the trees and use the land to make farms. They also use the wood from the trees to make buildings or to burn the trees for heat. Sometimes, forests are lost because people want to make cities bigger: this means building roads and buildings on the land where the forests are. 

Forests have the following functions:

Forests are often planted to protect against natural disasters. When forests are lost, very often the soil they protected is also lost. This loss of soil is often called erosion. We give out carbon dioxide when we breathe and plants and trees take it in by photosynthesis. 

Trees are also important for storing carbon. Deforestation causes the carbon in the trees to go into the air again, and this causes more carbon dioxide in our atmosphere. Since carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, deforestation causes global warming. In fact, 20% of global warming is caused by deforestation.


</doc>
<doc id="22752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22752" title="Scuba diving">
Scuba diving

Scuba Diving is a recreational activity, where people (called "scuba divers", or simply "divers") can swim underwater for a long time, using a tank filled with compressed air. The tank is a large metal cylinder made of steel or aluminum. The divers have special equipment called BCD's (buoyancy control device) to control whether they float or sink they can add air or remove air by using dump valves or an inflator on their secondary regulator. They also use a Regulator. A regulator is a piece of equipment which connects to the tank, and controls how much air is sent from the tank to the diver it helps adjust the air to the pressure that the diver is at so they can breathe properly at any depth. It helps the diver to breathe in from the tank, and out to the water.

Divers also use other equipment. They wear a mask to see through, fins on their feet to swim better, and a wetsuit to keep them warm under water because water makes you cold four times as fast as air.

The word Scuba is an acronym from Underwater Breathing Apparatus.


</doc>
<doc id="22754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22754" title="Capillary">
Capillary

A capillary is a single celled blood vessel. It does not have the muscular/elastic tissue of other blood vessels. It has a single celled wall to help substances be transported through organisms.
Capillaries are small, and smaller than any other blood vessels. They are about 5-10 μms big, which connect arterioles and venules, and enable the moving of water, oxygen, carbon dioxide, and many other nutrient and waste chemical between blood and surrounding tissues.

Blood moves from the heart to arteries, which branch and narrow into smaller arteries, and then branch more into capillaries. After oxygen has been moved to the tissue, capillaries join and widen to become small veins and then widen more to become veins, which return blood to the heart.

The "capillary bed" is the network of capillaries supplying an organ. The more metabolically active the cells, the more capillaries it will require to supply nutrients and carry away waste products. 

Special arteries connect between arterioles and venules and are important in bypassing the flow of blood through the capillaries. True capillaries come from mainly from metarterioles and provide movement between cells and the circulation. The width of 8 μm forces the red blood cells to partly fold into bullet-like shapes in order to bypass them in single file.

Precapillary muscles are rings of smooth muscles at the start of true capillaries that handle blood flow into true capillaries and control blood flow through a body part or area.

The capillary wall is a one-layer tissue so thin that gas and other items such as oxygen, water, proteins and fats can pass through them driven by pressure differences. Waste items such as carbon dioxide and urea can move back into the blood to be carried away for removal from the body. 

The capillary bed usually moves no more than 25% of the amount of blood it could contain, although this amount can be increased through auto regulation by making the smooth muscle relax in the arterioles that lead to the capillary bed as well as metarterioles making themselves smaller.

The capillaries do not have this smooth muscle in their own wall, and so any change in their width is passive. Any signaling molecules they release (such as endothelin for constriction and nitric oxide for dilation) act on the smooth muscle cells in the walls of nearby, larger vessels, e.g. arterioles.

Capillary's ability to move items can be increased by the release of certain cytokines, such as in an the body defending itself form germs.



</doc>
<doc id="22763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22763" title="Viriato Clemente da Cruz">
Viriato Clemente da Cruz

Viriato Clemente da Cruz, an Angolan poet and politician, was born in 1928 in Kikuvo (Porto Amboim), Angola and died in Beijing, China on 13 June 1973. 

He is considered one of the most important Angolan poets of his time. He wrote poems in Portugese and Angolan languages. He took part in the fight to free Angola from Portuguese rulers.

He was educated in Luanda, the capital of Angola, which was then ruled by Portugal. As a young man in 1957 he went to Paris, where he met Mario Pinto de Andrade, another Angolan poet and politician, who helped with his political ideas. In the 1960s they helped create the group called the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA--from the Portuguese name "Movimento Pela Libertação de Angola"). 

The MPLA was in not in Angola at this time, but was first in Conackry (the capital of Guinea) and then later in Leopoldville, Congo (now Kinshasa the capital of the DRC). Viriato da Cruz became secretary-general of the MPLA. After some time he and others, did not agree with some people in the group and this led to fighting in the streets of Leopoldville.

Viriato da Cruz went to Beijing, China in the 1960s because of the fighting in the MPLA. At first, the Chinese government welcomed him. He was well-known because he had helped create the MPLA. The Chinese wanted Viriato da Cruz to help them bring Maoist socialism to Africa. 

This was a big problem for Viriato and his family. His ideas were not the same as the Maoists. He thought that stronger countries can not bring a socialist revolution to other places. He was very brave and did not change his ideas. This was against the Chinese Maoist idea of world revolution.

Viriato da Cruz wanted to leave China and return to Africa, but the Chinese government would not let him go and they were not good to him. This may be because he could have made trouble for their work in Africa. 

The last years of the life of Viriato da Cruz were unhappy and difficult. He was weak, without much food, and he died on 13 Jun 1973. His dead body was taken away in a military vehicle and his burial was without any ceremony. 

Some Angolan people think that this was shocking, because Viriato da Cruz worked hard for Angola and was one of the leaders of the liberation from Portugal. 

Poems (1961). Among these poems, "Namoro", "Sô Santo" and "Makézu" are well-known.


</doc>
<doc id="22764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22764" title="Mollusc">
Mollusc

Molluscs, or mollusks, are an important phylum of invertebrate animals. Most of them are marine. They have huge numbers in-shore, that is, in shallow waters near the shore. They are probably the largest marine phylum, with about 93,000 recognised species, 23% of all named marine organisms. They also occur in freshwater and on land. Most molluscs have shells, but some groups do not: octopods, slugs, and the gastropods known as sea slugs. There is great variety in the phylum, much more so than their ancient rivals, the brachiopods.

Classes of molluscs:


</doc>
<doc id="22765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22765" title="Sponge">
Sponge

A sponge is a member of the phylum Porifera. It is a simple animal with no mouth, no muscles, no heart and no brain. It is sessile: it cannot move from place to place the way most other animals can. A sponge is an animal that grows in one spot like most plants do. Nevertheless, the phylum is quite successful.

There are more than 10,000 different species of sponge. Most sponges live in the ocean. Some live near the edge of the sea. Others live in deep water. A few sponges live in fresh water. All sponges take in water through pores (little holes) in their bodies. The water goes out through a big tube in the center. Most Sponges filter (take out) little bits of food from the water going through their bodies. Animals that get food this way are called filter feeders.

Sponges are simple animals, but they do have a few things that make them different from other animals. 

There are 3 different kinds of sponges. The difference between these kinds is in how their skeleton is made. 



Sponges are sessile, they live in one place, where they are "fixed" to the ground. A few sponges are capable of changing their position, they can move at speeds of between 1 mm and 4 mm a day. They do this like amoebae. A few species can contract their whole bodies, and many can close their openings/holes.

A few species live in waters where there is very little food available. They have therefore changed, and became predators. They prey on small crustaceans and other small animals. Most of these sponges belong to the family Cladorhizidae, but a few members of the Guitarridae and Esperiopsidae are also carnivores. In most cases little is known about how they actually capture prey. Some species are thought to use either sticky threads or hooked spicules. Most carnivorous sponges live in deep waters, up to , and the development of deep-ocean exploration techniques is expected to lead to the discovery of several more. However one species has been found in Mediterranean caves at depths of 17-23m alongside the more usual filter feeding sponges. The cave-dwelling predators capture crustaceans under long by entangling them with fine threads, digest them by enveloping them with further threads over the course of a few days, and then return to their normal shape; there is no evidence that they use venom.

Most known carnivorous sponges have completely lost the water flow system and choanocytes. However the genus "Chondrocladia" uses a highly modified water flow system to inflate balloon-like structures that are used for capturing prey.

Sponges usually reproduce (make more of their kind) when little pieces break off. If such a piece has the right types of cells it can grow to become a new sponge. A few sponges can also use budding. With budding a small sponge grows on the parent; when it is done growing, it simply "falls off". When the conditions are bad, some sponges can also grow lumps of unspecialised cells. These will not develop until the conditions improve again. They can then either make a new sponge, or they can use the skeleton of the parent sponge (that died).
Most sponges reproduce sexually. They can make sperm cells that are released into the water. These are either captured by another sponge, and are then transported to the egg cells of the parent. This is known as "viviparous". Both cells are joined to form larvae, which can swim off to find a good place to settle.

The other option, known as "oviparous" is that both sperm cells and egg cells are released into the water. These then combine outside the sponges.

A report in 1997 described how bottlenose dolphins in Shark Bay used sponges as tools: A dolphin will attach a marine sponge to its rostrum (snoutlike projection). It is thought the sponge is used to protect the rostrum when the dolphin is looking for food in the sandy sea bottom but scientists have not confirmed this. The behaviour, known as "sponging", has only been observed in this bay, and is almost exclusively shown by females. A study in 2005 concluded that mothers teach the behaviour to their daughters, and that all the sponge-users are closely related. This suggests that it is a fairly recent innovation.

The calcium carbonate or silica spicules of most sponges make them too rough for most uses, but two genera, "Hippospongia" and "Spongia", have soft, entirely fibrous skeletons. Early Europeans used soft sponges for many purposes including padding for helmets, portable drinking utensils and municipal water filters. Until synthetic sponges were invented, they were also used as cleaning tools, for painting, and as contraceptives. In the 20th century overfishing is a problem; this has caused the animals, as well as the industry behind it to be close to extinction.

Many objects with sponge-like textures are now made of substances that do not come from poriferans. Synthetic "sponges" include: personal and household cleaning tools; breast implants; contraceptive sponges.

The luffa "sponge", also spelled "loofah", which is commonly sold for use in the kitchen or the shower, is not derived from an animal but from the fibrous "skeleton" of a gourd (Cucurbitaceae).


</doc>
<doc id="22768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22768" title="Kibibyte">
Kibibyte

A kibibyte is a unit of information or computer storage. A kibibyte is 1024 bytes, 1024 kibibytes are a mebibyte.



</doc>
<doc id="22790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22790" title="Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life">
Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life

Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life is a 2003 action movie from Paramount Pictures. It is the second movie to star Angelina Jolie as the title character from the "Tomb Raider" video games.


</doc>
<doc id="22797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22797" title="Amplitude">
Amplitude

The amplitude or peak amplitude of a wave is a measure of how big its oscillation is. Amplitudes are always positive numbers (for example: 3.5, 1, 120) and are never negative (for example: -3.5, -1, -120). Amplitudes are positive because distance can only be greater than zero or equal to zero; negative distance does not exist.

The distance from the top of one peak to the bottom of another is called "peak-to-peak amplitude". Another way to describe peak-to-peak amplitude is to say that it is the distance between the maximum positive value and the maximum negative value of a wave.



</doc>
<doc id="22799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22799" title="Ska">
Ska

Ska is a kind of popular music from Jamaica that was developed in the 1950s. Ska music played at a slower tempo turned into reggae in the late 1960s.

Ska music bands include singers, electric guitars, electric bass guitar, piano, organ, saxophone, trumpet, and trombone.

In ska, the electric guitar and piano normally play short chords on the off-beat. If you go "one and two and three and four", the off-beat is the "And". 

In ska, the singer does a style of Jamaican singing called "toasting." When a singer is "toasting", they make sounds, repeat words, invent rhymes, and shout into the microphone. The Jamaican "toasting" style of singing and talking turned into rap music in the 1980s.

Musicians who play ska dress in hats and suits. Many ska bands wear clothes with a chessboard pattern of black and white squares. This pattern symbolizes the way that ska music mixes of Black and White musicans and styles of music. 

Even though ska was developed in the 1950s, it became popular again in the 1980s in Britain. In the 1980s, ska bands such as The Specials, The Selecter, The English Beat (known just as "The Beat" in England), and Madness played ska music.

In the 1990s, some bands mixed ska music with Punk rock to make ska-punk. This kind of ska music is from England and the United States. Some pop-punk bands from the 1990s mixed pop-punk with ska-punk.

Examples of Ska Bands:



</doc>
<doc id="22811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22811" title="Braille">
Braille

The Braille system is a way of writing things. It is named after Louis Braille, the French man who invented it. Today, the system is used by blind people to read and write. The Braille system uses an alphabet of letters, or characters. Each character is made of a series of dots that rise out of the paper in a special pattern. Blind people read braille by using their fingers to feel the characters. 

Louis Braille was not the first to think about a writing system for the blind. In the 17th century the Italian Jesuit Francesco Lana thought about different systems of coded writing for the blind. He invented a system which relies on relief printing on thick paper. Another writing system he invented let blind people write by making lines and dots. 

Valentin Haüy was one of the first French who took interest in the problems the blind had when they wanted to communicate. Haüy was born in Picardie in 1745, and studied languages at the university in Paris. First he took interest in the deaf people who could not speak, later in the blind people. In his opinion their biggest problem was that they could not read. He then invented a system which allowed them to read and write. sentences and mathematical expressions. Later he started a school for blind children. His writing system used two columns which had between one and six positions each. Vowels had a dot in the left column, for example. 

The Braille system was based on a method of communication originally developed by Charles Barbier. Barbier made it because Napoleon wanted a code that soldiers could use to exchange messages silently and without light at night. Barbier called it night writing. Night writing uses two columns of six dots. It uses phonemes, not letters. Barbier's system was too complex for soldiers to learn, the military rejected it. From the year 1821, he started to test his system in the school Haüy had founded. There it became very successful. Even though the system was difficult to learn, it greatly improved on reading. Barbier had understood that it was better to use a system that used dots over one that used lines.

When Barbier met Braille when he visited the National Institute of the Blind. Braille saw the biggest problem of the code: The human finger cannot feel the whole symbol without moving. This makes it impossible to move rapidly from one symbol to the next. Braille's change was to use a 6 dot cell — the braille system — which revolutionized written communication for the blind.

Braille can be seen as the world's first binary character encoding. The system as originally invented by Braille has two parts

Braille is used with different languages today. In each language, the letters are "encoded" differently, the same letter is at a different position in the "alphabet". This is known as braille code, or code page. There are also different braille codes in use for special purposes, like writing shorthand, mathematics or music. 

To make it possible to read faster, certain transcriptions of Braille use contractions. This is known as "Grade 2 Braille".

Braille uses cells of six raised dots, in two columns of three dots. The dot positions on the left are numbered one, to three, the ones on the right four to six, as shown in the picture.

Each symbol is coded with certain dots present, and others absent. The dots are approximately 0.02 inches (0.5 mm) high; inside the cell, the dots are about 0.1 inches (2.5 mm) apart. The space between the dots of two cells is about 0.15 inches (3.75 mm) horizontally and 0.2 inches (5 mm) vertically. A standard braille page is 11 inches by 11 inches and typically has between forty and forty-two braille cells per line and twenty-five lines.

As originally conceived by Louis Braille, a sequence of characters, using the top 4 dots of the braille cell, represents letters "a" through "j". Dot 3 is added to each of the "a" through "j" symbols to give letters "k" through "t". Both of the bottom dots (dots 3 and 6) are added to the symbols for "a" through "e" to give letters "u", "v", "x", "y", and "z". The letter "w" is an exception to the pattern because French did not make use of the letter "w" at the time Louis Braille devised his alphabet, and thus he had no need to encode the letter "w".

English braille codes the letters and punctuation, and some double letter signs and word signs directly, but capitalization and numbers are dealt with by using a prefix symbol. In practice, braille produced in the United Kingdom does not have capital letters. 

There are braille codes for representing shorthand (produced on a machine which embosses a paper tape) and for representing mathematics (Nemeth Braille) and musical notation (braille music).

Braille can be made using a "slate" and a "stylus" in which each dot is created from the back of the page, writing in mirror image, by hand, or it may be produced on a braille typewriter or "Perkins Brailler", or produced by a braille embosser attached to a computer. It may also be rendered using a refreshable braille display.

The six code braille is very limited, it only allows 64 different combinations. Keeping to the 6-bit code means that many things need more than one braille character to be coded. A good example for this is how numbers are coded: First there is a symbol that says the next symbol is a number, and then there is the symbol for the number. Louis Braille coded the number "1" the same way as "a", "2" the same as "b", and so on. The letter "i" can also mean "9", and "j" stands for the zero. There is another system for coding numbers, called "Antoine". This comes from mathematics. It uses one character to say there is a number (dot 6), and then there are 10 different symbols for the 10 digits. The symbol for "number" is usually given only once; every symbol that follows is treated as a number, until there is a space. 

Braille has been extended to an 8 dot code, particularly for use with braille embossers and refreshable braille displays. In 8 dot braille the additional dots are added at the bottom of the cell, giving a matrix 4 dots high by 2 dots wide. The additional dots are given the numbers 7 (for the lower-left dot) and 8 (for the lower-right dot). 8-dot braille has the advantages that the case of an individual letter is directly coded in the cell containing the letter and that all the printable ASCII characters can be represented in a single cell. All 256 possible combinations of 8 dots are encoded by the Unicode standard. Braille with six dots is frequently stored as braille ASCII.

It is possible to transcribe braille by replacing each letter with its braille counterpart. This is usually known as "Grade 1 Braille". Grade 1 braille is mostly used by beginners. 

The basic problem of Grade 1 braille is that braille "letters" are much larger than printed ones. The standard page is 11"x11" (28cm by 28cm) in size and only has room for twenty-five lines of forty characters.

For this reason almost all braille books use a transcription known as "Grade 2 braille". Grade 2 braille uses contractions, which allows to save space and increase reading speed. Grade 2 braille was developed by linguists who also looked at customs, styles and practices. Transcribing a text into Grade 2 braille is difficult, and the people doing the transcription need to have a special education. There is a book on how to transcribe to braille, in the Library of Congress. This book has almost 200 pages. 

In English, there are 23 words which are replaced with a single letter. That way, the word "but" is contracted to the single letter "b," "can" to "c", "do" to "d", and so on. Even this simple rule has exceptions and special cases, which must be thought of. As an example, only the verb "to do" is replaced by "d", the noun "do" (which stands for a note in music) is a different word, and is written in full. 

Sometimes, portions of words are contracted. There are many rules for this process. For example, the character with dots 2-3-5 (the letter "f" lowered in the braille cell) stands for "ff" when used in the middle of a word. At the beginning of a word, this same character stands for the word "to" although the character is written in braille with no space following it. At the end of a word, the same character represents an exclamation point.

The contraction rules take into account the linguistic structure of the word; thus, contractions are not to be used when their use would alter the usual braille form of a base word to which a prefix or suffix has been added. In addition, some portions of the transcription rules are not fully codified and rely on the judgment of the transcriber. Thus, when the contraction rules permit the same word in more than one way, preference is given to "the contraction that more nearly approximates correct pronunciation."

"Grade 3 Braille" is a system that includes many additional contractions. It is almost like a shorthand. It is rarely used for publications, rather people use it to be able to write and read fast, for themselves.

Only very few people can use grade 4 braille. It uses many rules to shorten grade 3 even further. It allows a blind person to use shorthand to follow spoken conversation. Very often, systems of seven or eight dots are used.

The current series of Canadian banknotes have raised dots on the banknotes that indicate their value. They can be easily identified by visually impaired people; this 'tactile feature' does not use standard braille but, instead, a system developed in consultation with blind and visually impaired Canadians after research indicated that not all potential users read braille.

Though braille is thought to be the main way blind people read and write, in Britain (for example) out of the reported 2 million visually impaired population, it is estimated that only around 15-20 thousand people use Braille. Younger people are turning to electronic text on computers instead; a more portable communication method that they can also use with their friends. A debate has started on how to make braille more attractive and for more teachers to be available to teach it.

There are many extensions of Braille for additional letters with diacritics, such as "ç, ô, é". 

When braille is adapted to languages which do not use the Latin alphabet, the blocks are generally assigned to the new alphabet according to how it is transliterated into the Latin alphabet, and the alphabetic order of the national script (and therefore the natural order of Latin braille) is disregarded. Such is the case with Russian, Greek, Hebrew, Arabic, and Chinese. In Greek, for example, "gamma" is written as Latin "g", despite the fact that it has the alphabetic position of "c"; Hebrew "beth", the second letter of the alphabet and cognate with the Latin letter "b", is instead written "v", as it is commonly pronounced; Russian "ts" is written as "c", which is the usual letter for /ts/ in those Slavic languages that use the Latin alphabet; and Arabic "f" is written as "f", despite being historically "p", and occurring in that part of the Arabic alphabet (between historic "o" and "q"). Esperanto letters with circumflexes, "ĉ", "ĝ", "ĥ", "ĵ" and "ŝ", are written as those letters without circumflexes with a filled sixth dot. The "ŭ", used in Esperanto too, is as the u but the first dot is moved to the second place.

Greater differences occur in Chinese braille. In the case of Mandarin Braille, which is based on Zhuyin rather than the Latin Pinyin alphabet, the traditional Latin braille values are used for initial consonants and the simple vowels. However, there are additional blocks for the tones, diphthongs, and vowel + consonant combinations. Cantonese Braille is also based on Latin braille for many of the initial consonants and simple vowels (based on Romanizations of a century ago), but the blocks pull double duty, with different values depending on whether they are placed in syllable-initial or syllable-final position. For instance, the block for Latin "k" represents old-style Cantonese "k" ("g" in Yale and other modern Romanizations) when initial, but "aak" when final, while Latin "j" represents Cantonese initial "j" but final "oei". 

However, at least two adaptations of Braille have completely reassigned the Latin sound values of the blocks. These are:

In Japanese Braille, alphabetic signs for a consonant and vowel are combined into a single syllabic block; in Korean Braille, the consonants have different syllable-initial and syllable-final forms. These modifications made Braille much more compatible with Japanese kana and Korean hangul, but meant that the Latin sound values could not be maintained.

Trained readers of Braille can read about 100 words per minute; trained readers who do not have sight problems can get to around 250 to 300 words per minute.




</doc>
<doc id="22812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22812" title="Switch">
Switch

A switch is something that changes the flow of an electrical circuit. The most common kind of switch is something (for example a railroad switch) which can be taken off of one course and put onto another. The term "switch" usually means electrical power. In applications where more than one switch is needed, (i.e. a telephone service) mechanical switches have been replaced by electronic switches which can be controlled automatically.

The switch is called a "gate" when used in a mathematical form. In logic, arguments are represented as logic gates. The use of electronic "gates" to work as a system of logical gates is the basic idea behind the computer —i.e. a computer is a lot of electronic switches that work as logic gates.

There are many types of switches. Some of these are: 

The word 'switch' can also mean to change between two things. For example, on a railway line, sometimes the track can split into two different tracks. If the train is travelling on one line and changes over to the other, it has just done a switch.



</doc>
<doc id="22814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22814" title="Francis Bacon">
Francis Bacon

Sir Francis Bacon KC, (22 January 1561—9 April 1626), was an English philosopher, statesman, and author. He has been described as one of the greatest thinkers ever whose ideas have changed the way people think. 

He was born in London, the son of Sir Nicholas Bacon and the nephew of Queen Elizabeth's advisor, William Cecil. He was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge. His first job was a lawyer. He later became a Member of Parliament and in 1586 he took a leading part in having Mary Queen of Scots executed. He became a friend of Robert Deveraux, the Earl of Essex, in 1591, and received many valuable gifts from him. After Essex led a rebellion against the Queen, Bacon was one of the people who led the investigation which led to Essex's execution in 1601. 

Bacon was often in trouble for spending too much, and in 1601 he was arrested for debt. When King James became king in 1603, Bacon's position improved. He was knighted in 1603. He was one of the people appointed to plan the joining of England and Scotland together as one country. He married Alice Barnham in 1606, and the next year he was made the Solicitor General. He continued to be given better paying positions including Attorney General, Lord Keeper, and Lord Chancellor. 

He was made Baron Verulam in 1618, and Viscount St Albans in 1621. Because he did not have children both titles ended when he died.

He used his positions to make more money for himself, and in 1621 the Parliament found that he was corrupt. He was fined £40,000 and removed from all his jobs. King James overturned the fine, but he was kept as a prisoner in the Tower of London for a while.

He became best known as a leading thinker in new ways of looking at the world. His writings started and made famous a way of thinking about science. This way of thinking is now called the "Baconian method". It is based on looking at the world by making experiments. After watching the results the scientist comes up with an idea to explain what has happened. This idea or hypothesis is then further tested by more experiments. This way of thinking about science is called inductive methodology. In Bacon's time these methods were linked with magic including hermeticism and alchemy. Alchemy was the study of fire, earth, water and air. Alchemists tried to make gold from lead.

he married a 14 year old when he was 45 !!!!


</doc>
<doc id="22822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22822" title="Sled dog">
Sled dog

Sled dogs, known also as sleigh dogs, sledge dogs or sleddogs are types of dogs that are used to pull a wheel-less vehicle on runners (a sled or sleigh) over snow or ice, by means of harnesses and lines. The origins of this arrangement are unknown.
A ten-dog team of Seppala Siberian Sleddogs in tandem hitch on a frozen Yukon lake (Photo by Isa Boucher)Several distinct dog breeds are in common use as sled dogs, although any medium-sized breed may be used to pull a sled. Purebred sled dog breeds range from the well-known Siberian Husky and Alaskan Malamute to rarer breeds such as the Mackenzie River Husky. Dog drivers, however, have a long history of using other breeds or crossbreds as sled dogs. In the days of the Gold Rush in The Yukon, mongrel teams were the rule, but there were also teams of Foxhounds and Staghounds. Today the unregistered hybridized Alaskan husky is preferred for dogsled racing, along with a variety of crossbreds, the German Shorthaired Pointer often being chosen as the basis for crossbreeding. From 1988 through 1991, a team of Standard Poodles competed in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race

Sled dogs are expected to demonstrate two major qualities in their work (apart from basic physical capability to pull the sled). Endurance is needed to travel the distances demanded in dogsled travel, which may be anything from five to eighty miles (8 to 130 km) or more a day. Speed is needed to travel the distance in a reasonable length of time. Racing sled dogs will travel up to an average twenty miles per hour (32.2 km/h) over distances up to 25 miles (40 km). Over longer distances, average traveling speed declines to 10 to 14 miles per hour (16 to 22 km/h). In poor trail conditions, sleddogs can still usually average 6 or 7 miles per hour (10 or 11 km/h). Sled dogs have been known to travel over 90 miles in a 24 hour period while pulling 85 pounds each.
Royal Canadian Mounted Police (R.C.M.P.) hitching sled dogs into their harnessSleddogs pull various sorts of sleds, from the small 25 pound (11 kg) sprint-racing sleds, through the larger plastic-bottomed distance racing toboggan sleds, to traditional ash freighting sleds and the trapper's high-fronted narrow toboggan. Sled dogs are also used to pull skiers and to draw wheeled rigs when there is no snow. A team of sled dogs may consist of anywhere from three to two dozen animals. Modern teams are usually hitched in tandem, with harnessed pairs of sled dogs pulling on tug lines attached to a central gangline. Trappers in deep snow conditions using the toboggan will hitch their dogs in single file with traces on either side of the line of dogs. Dog teams of some Arctic natives are run in "fan hitch", each dog having its own tow line tied directly to the sled.

Driving sled dogs has become a popular winter recreation and sport in North America and Europe; sled dogs are now found even in such unlikely places as Australia and Patagonia.

-- History of Sled Dogs (Great Race of Mercy) --

During the 1925 serum run to Nome, also known as the "Great Race of Mercy", 20 mushers and about 150 sled dogs relayed diphtheria antitoxin 674 miles (1,085 km) by dog sled across the U.S. territory of Alaska in a record-breaking five and a half days, saving the small city of Nome and the surrounding communities from an incipient epidemic. Both the mushers and their dogs were portrayed as heroes in the newly popular medium of radio, and received headline coverage in newspapers across the United States. Balto, the lead sled dog on the final stretch into Nome, became the most famous canine celebrity of the era after Rin Tin Tin, and his statue is still one of the most popular tourist attractions in New York City's Central Park. The publicity also helped spur an inoculation campaign in the U.S. that dramatically reduced the threat of the disease.

The sled dog was the primary means of transportation and communication in sub-Arctic communities around the world, and the race became both the last great hurrah and the most famous event in the history of mushing, before first aircraft in the 1930s and then the snowmobile in the 1960s drove the dog sled almost into extinction. The resurgence of recreational mushing in Alaska since the 1970s is a direct result of the tremendous popularity of the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, which honors the history of dog mushing with many traditions that commemorate the serum run.


</doc>
<doc id="22847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22847" title="Overland Expedition">
Overland Expedition

The Overland Expedition, also called the Overland Relief Expedition or Point Barrow-Overland Relief Expedition, was a long trip in 1897–8, by three officers of the United States Coast Guard (then named the "U.S. Revenue Cutter Service"), with the help of two civilians, using sled dogs and reindeer to rescue more than 250 whalers trapped in the Arctic Ocean by ice around their ships.

The rescue was ordered by then-U.S. President William McKinley. McKinley later talked about the rescue in a letter dated January 17, 1899 to the United States Congress, in which he asked Congress to award the officers Congressional Gold Medals of Honor, and to pay the civilians for their help:

It will be remembered that in the month of October, 1897, reports were
received here of the probable loss of the whaling fleet in the Arctic
regions, and of the likelihood that nearly 300 men, composing the
officers and crews of the fleet, would perish from hunger unless succor [an old word for food] could reach them early in the spring. ...<br>
The overland expedition was formed, and consisted of First Lieut. David
H. Jarvis, Revenue-Cutter Service, commanding; Second Lieut. Ellsworth
P. Bertholf, Revenue-Cutter Service, and Dr. Samuel J. Call, surgeon of
the "Bear", all volunteers. ...<br>
They were materially aided by Mr. W.T. Lopp, agent of the American Missionary Society at Cape Prince of Wales, and Artisarlook, a native of that region, both of whom, at great personal sacrifice, left their families and accompanied the reindeer herd to Point Barrow.
The overland expedition, after a difficult and hazardous journey of
nearly 2,000 miles through the storms and bitter cold of an Arctic
winter, reached Point Barrow with the herd on the 29th of March, 1898,
three months and twelve days from their landing from the "Bear" at
Cape Vancouver, Alaskan coast of Bering Sea. They arrived none too soon. ... [due to] bad sanitary conditions and want of proper food, the men from the whale ships quartered there were found upon the verge of great suffering, while sickness had broken out among them. ...<br>
I have therefore the honor to submit the following recommendations and
to ask your favorable action: ...<br>
That gold medals of honor of appropriate design, to be approved by
the Secretary of the Treasury, be awarded to Lieutenants Jarvis and
Bertholf and Dr. Call, commemorative of their heroic struggles in aid of
suffering fellow-men. ...<br>
That the sum of $2,500 be appropriated to be disbursed by the
Secretary of the Treasury in bestowing rewards upon W.T. Lopp,
Artisarlook, and native herders, who rendered material aid to the relief
expedition.


</doc>
<doc id="22857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22857" title="Number theory">
Number theory

Number theory is a part of mathematics. It explains what some types of numbers are, what properties they have, and ways that they can be useful.

Topics in number theory are: 

Important theorems in number theory are: 

A well-known application of number theory is encrypted messaging (encryption). Data compression also makes use of the field.


</doc>
<doc id="22863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22863" title="Tear gas">
Tear gas

Tear gas is the name for a number of chemical compounds. It is not actually a gas. It is a fine powder or very small drops of liquid. The chemicals in the powder are acidic and cause pain in the eyes. Tear gas may cause temporary blindness for up to 45 minutes. Tear gas is commonly used by police to control crowds. Phenacyl chloride (CN) and CS gas are two of the chemicals that are often found in tear gas. Pepper spray is another chemical compound that acts very similarly and is sometimes used to control crowds.



</doc>
<doc id="22868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22868" title="Template:Proposed">
Template:Proposed

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="22881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22881" title="Kaba Ma Kyei">
Kaba Ma Kyei

ကမၻာမေက် ဗမာျပည္ တို႔ဘိုးဘြားအေမြစစ္မို႔ ခ်စ္ျမတ္နိုးေပ ျပည္ေထာင္စုကို အသက္ေပးလို႔ တို႔ကာကြယ္မေလ ဒါတို႔ျပည္ဒါတို႔ေျမ တို႔ပိုင္တဲ့ေျမ တို႔ျပည္ တို႔ေျမ အက်ိဳးကို ညီညာစြာတို႔တစ္ေတြ ထမ္းေဆာင္ပါစို႔ေလ တို႔တာဝန္ေပ အဖိုးတန္ေျမ... အဲဒီ ငါ စြဲၾကီး စြဲေနလို႔ကေတာ့ ဒိ႒ိဘယ္ေတာ့မွ မျပဳတ္သလို ဘယ္ေတာမွလည္း အပါယ္တံခါးပိတ္မွာ မဟုတ္ဘုူး... ေလာကမွာ ဘယ္အရာမွ မျမဲပါဘုူး... ဒိ႒ိနဲ႔ တဏွာ ကင္းေဝးနိုင္ၾကပါေစ...Kaba Ma Kyei, which means "Until the World Crumbles", is the national anthem (song) of Myanmar. The melody and lyrics were created by Saya Tin, and became the Burmese national anthem in 1947.


</doc>
<doc id="22882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22882" title="Yangon">
Yangon

Yangon, also known as Rangoon, is the largest city in Myanmar. It was also the capital city until 2006. The city is by a river called Hlaing River, and is close to the sea. Yangon has more than 4 million people living there.
Yangon was founded as Dagon in the 6th century AD by the Mons, who ruled Lower Burma at that time. Dagon was a small fishing village centered about the Shwedagon Pagoda. In 1755, King Alaungpaya conquered Dagon and renamed it "Yangon". The British captured Yangon during the First Anglo-Burmese War (1824–26) but returned it to Burma after the war. The city was destroyed by a fire in 1841.

The British took Yangon and all of Lower Burma in the Second Anglo-Burmese War of 1852, and then changed Yangon into the most important city of British Burma. The British constructed a new city on a grid plan on delta land. It was bound to the east by the Pazundaung Creek and to the south and west by the Yangon River. Yangon became the capital of all British Burma after the British had captured Upper Burma in the Third Anglo-Burmese War of 1885. By the 1890s Yangon's increasing population and commerce gave birth to prosperous residential suburbs to the north of Royal Lake (Kandawgyi) and Inya Lake. The British also established hospitals including Rangoon General Hospital and colleges including Rangoon University.
Colonial Yangon, with its spacious parks and lakes and mix of modern buildings and traditional wooden architecture, was known as "the garden city of the East." By the early 20th century, Yangon had public services and infrastructure on par with London.

Before World War II, about 55% of Yangon's population of 500,000 was Indian or South Asian, and only about a third was Bamar (Burman). Karens, the Chinese, the Anglo-Burmese and others made up the rest.

After World War I, Yangon became the center of Burmese independence movement. The leftist Rangoon University students led the way. Three nationwide strikes against the British Empire in 1920, 1936 and 1938 began in Yangon. Yangon was under Japan's occupation (1942–45), and was heavily damage during World War II. Yangon became the capital of Union of Burma on 4 January 1948 when the country regained independence from the British Empire.


</doc>
<doc id="22883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22883" title="Pyinmana">
Pyinmana

Pyinmana is a small town in Mandalay Division of Myanmar. The government in 2005 decided to move the capital city from Yangon to an area near this town, named Naypyidaw in March 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="22885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22885" title="Kyat">
Kyat

A kyat () is a kind of money used in Myanmar. The symbol for it is K. One kyat is equal to 100 pya. One kyat is almost equal to 1000 US dollars.


</doc>
<doc id="22886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22886" title="Burmese language">
Burmese language

Burmese (in Burmese "ba-ma-sa", pronounced /baa-MAA-saa/) is a language spoken in Myanmar. Burmese is a Sino-Tibetan language, meaning that is close to Chinese and Tibetan.

Burmese has three tones(high, medium,low: plus two,'stops or abbreviated additional, qualifying 'tones"), no gender{have natural gender eg.saya(male teacher),sayama(female teacher)}, and no tense. Burmese has many English and Indian words(loan words) though is a very distinct and full language itself with a long history and substantial numbers of proudly articulated dialects.

Here are some examples of words and sentences in Burmese.

Hello = "min-ga-la-ba"

How are you? = "Nei kaun la?"

I am (name) = "Cha-naw yè nan-bè ga _______"

What is your name? = "Ka-mya ba kaw da lè?"

Are you Burmese? = "Nae ba-ma pyi ga la da la?"

(Note: To ask if someone is from other countries, just replace ba-ma pyi with any of the countries below.

America = "A-mè-ree-ka"

France = "Pyin-thit"

Britain = "In-ga-lan"

Germany = "Ja-ma-nee"

Russia = "Ra-sha"

Thailand = "Yoe-da-ya"

Japan = "Ja-pan"

Chinese = "Ta-yote"

Indian = " in-di-yah"


</doc>
<doc id="22889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22889" title="Category:Fibers">
Category:Fibers


</doc>
<doc id="22892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22892" title="Template:IPA">
Template:IPA

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="22893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22893" title="Danielle Steel">
Danielle Steel

Danielle Fernande Schuelein-Steel (born August 14, 1947 in New York City) is an American writer. Steel was born an only child, and her parents divorced when she was young. She was looked after by relatives and family employees in Paris and New York City. She was a lonely child and read a lot of books and poetry.


</doc>
<doc id="22896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22896" title="Coat of arms">
Coat of arms

A coat of arms is a unique design painted on a shield. These designs may be inherited, meaning that they pass from a father to his children. In the middle ages, these designs were shown on real shields, but today they are usually only drawn or painted on the paper that makes them legal which is called a grant of arms. The grant of arms is usually allowed only when by the government of a country or its agent. In England, this is called the College of Arms and in Scotland is called the Lord Lyon. 

Coats of arms are normally issued for real people but nowadays lots of countries and businesses also have coats of arms. Each symbol on the coat of arms will represent something that has an important meaning to that person, country or company. 



</doc>
<doc id="22902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22902" title="Spear">
Spear

A spear is a weapon used in Antiquity and the Middle Ages. It is meant to primarily stab. But some spears can both stab and slash, although stabbing is still used more often. Some kinds of spears were also meant to be thrown.

A lance is a special spear used from horseback during medieval times.


</doc>
<doc id="22904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22904" title="Hat">
Hat

A hat is a type of covering for the head. There are many types of hats. Hats are different in different parts of the world. Some hats are worn by women, other hats by men, others by both, and some are not worn by anyone at all (they are just used for decoration). People who make hats for men are called hatters, and those who make hats for women are called milliners.

Some examples of hats:



</doc>
<doc id="22908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22908" title="Postage stamp">
Postage stamp

Postage stamps are pieces of paper with glue or adhesive on the back. They are put on the corner of an envelope to pay the fee for having the postal service take the envelope to where it is being sent. There are a lot of different postage stamps in the world. They have existed since the nineteenth century. Most countries have their own stamps. People collect them in books called stamp albums. Sometimes people collect stamps from only one country, or there is something else that links the stamps. Perhaps the stamps all have mistakes in the printing like in the picture with the aeroplane printed upside down. Win Straube is a stamp collector, who created a new kind of stamp art in the form of a carefully composed mosaic of postage stamps, called Ebu-Arts.

Maps on stamps is a common topic on stamp collecting. Almost every country has featured maps on stamps. Also topic map, including demographic, and cross topic one, as explorer routes over maps.



</doc>
<doc id="22914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22914" title="Czechoslovakia">
Czechoslovakia

Czechoslovakia (Czech: "Československo", Slovak: "Československo"/after 1990 "Česko-Slovensko") was a country in Europe that existed from 1918 until 1993.

In mid 1938 Nazi Germany took over Czechoslovakia. After World War II the USSR kept part of eastern Czechoslovakia so that they could have a border with Hungary. The USSR also kept parts of Poland and Romania. All four of these countries were in the USSR's sphere of influence. The USSR thought that this meant they could make sure the countries did what they wanted. In 1968 the USSR thought that the government of Alexander Dubcek was moving away from communism and leaving the Warsaw Pact, and invaded Czechoslovakia.

On January 1, 1993, Czechoslovakia peacefully split into the Czech Republic and Slovakia, in what was known as the "Velvet Revolution". This was because the peaceful revolution which got rid of the old communist dictatorship was called the "Velvet Revolution". Both countries separated in peace.


</doc>
<doc id="22917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22917" title="1410s">
1410s





</doc>
<doc id="22918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22918" title="William Randolph Hearst">
William Randolph Hearst

William Randolph Hearst (April 29, 1863 – August 14, 1951) was an American newspaper magnate, born in San Francisco, California.

William Randolph was the only child of Phoebe Apperson Hearst, a former school teacher from Missouri and George Hearst, a successful miner who became a multi-millionaire, and later U.S. Senator from California. William Randolph Hearst was a member of the United States House of Representatives for New York between 1903 and 1907, as a member of the Independence Party.

Hearst was a media tycoon. He started a newspaper empire, now the Hearst corporation. He has become known for sensationalist stories. Those stories were often false, or only very loosely based on true events.

The film Citizen Kane by Orson Welles tells the story about William Randolph Hearst.


</doc>
<doc id="22919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22919" title="Joseph Pulitzer">
Joseph Pulitzer

Joseph "Joe" Pulitzer (April 10, 1847 – October 29, 1911) was an American publisher. Most people link the word Pulitzer to the Pulitzer Prizes. These prizes were established by his will, after his death. He is also known (along with William Randolph Hearst) for starting yellow journalism. 

Joseph Pulitzer was born in Makó, in present-day Hungary. Originally, he wanted to do a military career, but was turned down by the Austrian army. They said his health was bad and that he did not see too well. He went to live in the United States in 1864 to serve in the American Civil War. After the war he settled in St. Louis, Missouri. In 1868 he began working there for a German-language daily newspaper, the "Westliche Post". He joined the Republican Party and was elected to the Missouri State Assembly in 1869. In 1872, Pulitzer bought the "Post" for $3,000. Then, in 1878, he bought the "St. Louis Dispatch" for $2,700 and merged the two papers, which became the "St. Louis Post-Dispatch", which remains St. Louis' daily newspaper. It was at the Post-Dispatch that Pulitzer developed his role as a champion of the common man with exposés and a hard-hitting populist approach. 

By 1883, Pulitzer had made a lot of money. In that year, he bought the "New York World". That newspaper had been losing $40,000 a year. He paid $346,000 to Jay Gould, the owner. Pulitzer changed its focus to human-interest stories, scandal, and sensationalism. In 1885, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, but resigned after a few months' service. He did not like politics . In 1887, he recruited the famous investigative journalist Nellie Bly. In 1895 the "World" introduced the popular Yellow Kid comic by Richard F. Outcault. This was the first newspaper comic printed with color. Under Pulitzer's leadership circulation grew from 15,000 to 600,000, making "the New Your World" the largest newspaper in the country. 

The editor of the rival "New York Sun" attacked Pulitzer in print. He calling him "The Jew who gave up his religion".This was in 1890. This was intended to turn away Pulitzer's Jewish readership. Pulitzer's already failing health deteriorated rapidly, and he left the newsroom. He continued to actively manage the paper from his vacation retreat in Bar Harbor Maine and his New York mansion. 

In 1895, William Randolph Hearst purchased the rival "New York Journal", which led to a circulation war. This competition with Hearst, particularly the coverage before and during the Spanish-American War, linked Pulitzer's name with "yellow journalism". 

After the "World" exposed a fraudulent payment of $40 million by the United States to the French Panama Canal Company in 1909, Pulitzer was indicted for libeling Theodore Roosevelt and J. P. Morgan. The courts dismissed the indictments, in a victory for freedom of the press.

In 1892, Pulitzer offered Columbia University's president, Seth Low, money to set up the world's first school of journalism. The university initially turned down the money, evidently unimpressed by Pulitzer's unscrupulous character. In 1902, Columbia's new president Nicholas Murray Butler was more receptive to the plan for a school and prizes, but it would not be until after Pulitzer's death that this dream would be fulfilled. Pulitzer left the university $2 million in his will, which led to the creation in 1912 of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, but by then the first school of journalism had been created at the University of Missouri. Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism remains one of the most prestigious in the world. 

Joseph Pulitzer died aboard his yacht in the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina in 1911. He is interred in the Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York. In 1917, the first Pulitzer Prizes were awarded, in accordance with Pulitzer's wishes.

In 1989 Pulitzer was inducted into the St. Louis Walk of Fame.




</doc>
<doc id="22920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22920" title="Horace Greeley">
Horace Greeley

Horace Greeley (February 3, 1811 – November 29, 1872) was an American newspaper editor, reformer and politician. His "New York Tribune" was the most influential newspaper of the period 1840-1870. Greeley used it to promote the Whig and Republican parties.

He is best known for his socially colored journalism. He wanted to convince people of his ideas. He thought that the role of a journalist must be to convince people with sound arguments. He did not like the sensationalist approach of Joseph Pulitzer and others.


</doc>
<doc id="22923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22923" title="Arachnid">
Arachnid

The Arachnids are a class of eight-legged arthropods. They are a highly successful group of mainly terrestrial invertebrates: spiders, scorpions, harvestmen, ticks, and mites, and a number of smaller groups.

Almost all adult arachnids have eight legs, and arachnids may be easily distinguished from insects by this fact, since insects have six legs. However, arachnids also have two further pairs of appendages that have become adapted for feeding, defense, and sensory perception. The first pair, the chelicerae, serve in feeding and defense. The next pair of appendages, the pedipalps have been adapted for feeding, locomotion, and/or reproductive functions. 

Like all arthropods, arachnids have an exoskeleton. They also have an internal structure of cartilage-like tissue, to which certain muscle groups are attached..

Arachnids have no antennae or wings. Their body is organized into two parts: the cephalothorax, and the abdomen. 

There are some adaptations for life on land. They have internal respiratory surfaces. These may be trachea (tubes), or a modification of gills into a 'book lung'. This is an internal series of lamellae used for gas exchange with the air. 

Arachnids are mostly carnivorous, feeding on the pre-digested bodies of insects and other small animals. Only the harvestmen and some mites eat solid food particles. Predigestion avoids exposure to internal parasites. Several groups secrete venom from specialized glands to kill prey or enemies. Several mites are external parasites, some of which are carriers of disease.

Arachnids pour digestive juices produced in their stomachs over their prey after killing it with their pedipalps and chelicerae. The digestive juices rapidly turn the prey into a broth of nutrients which the arachnid sucks into a pre-buccal cavity located immediately in front of the mouth. Behind the mouth is a muscular, sclerotised pharynx, which acts as a pump, sucking the food through the mouth and on into the oesophagus and stomach. In some arachnids, the oesophagus also acts as an additional pump.

The word "Arachnida" comes from the Greek for 'spider'. In legend, a girl called Arachne was turned into a spider by the goddess Athena. Arachne said she'd win a weaving contest against the goddess. Arachne won, but the Athena got mad and made her a spider, for challenging a goddess. 



</doc>
<doc id="22924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22924" title="Arthropod">
Arthropod

Arthropods (phylum Arthropoda) are a group of invertebrates, which means they do not have backbones (vertebrae). Insects, spiders, crabs, shrimp, millipedes, and centipedes are all arthropods. 

Arthropods are also a source of food for many animals, including humans. All arthropods have jointed feet, a segmented body, and an exoskeleton, a shell outside of the body. 

Arthropods are made up of 4 groups of living animals and one group of extinct animals. The 4 groups are insects, arachnids, crustaceans, and myriapods. The trilobites are extinct, and they are the second most famous type of fossils, after the dinosaurs. 


</doc>
<doc id="22926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22926" title="University of Alabama">
University of Alabama

The University of Alabama (UA) is a university in the U.S. state of Alabama. The University of Alabama is in the city of Tuscaloosa. People can usually just say "Alabama" or "UA" for short when they are talking about the University.

UA opened in 1831 and now about 20,000 students study there. UA is one of the three largest universities in Alabama. Auburn University and University of Alabama at Birmingham are the other two main schools in Alabama. Students study many things at UA, such as liberal arts, science, engineering, communication, engineering, education, social work, nursing, human sciences (such as fashion design) and law. People study to get Bachelor's degrees, Master's degrees and doctorates at Alabama. Also, graduates can get an Education Specialist degree.

Many people have heard about the University of Alabama because it has many good sports teams. These sports teams are called the Crimson Tide. The football team from UA has won the national football championship 12 times in the past 83 years and play at Bryant–Denny Stadium.

In 1963, Alabama Gov. George Wallace announced in his inaugural address, "segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever" as his policy. He personally blocked the door to Foster Auditorium at the University of Alabama to prevent the enrollment of two black students. He moved aside only when confronted by General Henry Graham of the Alabama National Guard, who was ordered by President John F. Kennedy to intervene.



</doc>
<doc id="22928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22928" title="Buttercup">
Buttercup

A buttercup is a kind of flower. They are yellow, and grow in lots of different places. Some animals get sick when they eat it, but they do not do that a lot, because it tastes bad.


</doc>
<doc id="22939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22939" title="Gomaespuma">
Gomaespuma

Gomaespuma is a radio show, presented by Juan Luis Cano and Guillermo Fesser. The program is broadcast by Onda Cero. It also has been in M80 radio and in Antenna 3 Radio. Gomaespuma organises the Flamenco pa tos festival, the most important Flamenco festival of Spain. Gomaespuma directs a foundation with the same name.



These people have appeared on television and on radio (marionettes)


These links are in Spanish


</doc>
<doc id="22953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22953" title="Engineer">
Engineer

Engineer is a person with a proper education in the field of engineering. The word "engineer" is derived from the Latin root "ingenium", meaning "cleverness". Engineers design materials, structures, machines and systems while considering the limitations imposed by practicality, safety and cost. Engineers often use information given by scientists to do their work. Apart from working with things, an engineer must also be good at working with people and money.



</doc>
<doc id="22964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22964" title="Division by zero">
Division by zero

Division by zero is a problem of mathematics that does not allow a number to be divided by zero. Observe: 

1. formula_1

If "B" = 0, then "C" = 0. This is true. But look:

2. formula_2

Which is the same as:

3. formula_3

The problem is that A could be any number. 0/0 is said to be of "indeterminate form" for this reason, because it has no single value. Numbers of the form A/0, on the other hand, where A is not 0, are said to be "undefined." This is because any attempt to define them will result in a value of infinity, which is itself undefined. Usually when two numbers are equal to the same thing, they are equal to each other. That is not true when the thing they are both equal to is 0/0. This means that the normal rules of maths do not work when the number is divided by zero.

It is possible to disguise a special case of division by zero in an algebraic argument. This can lead to invalid proofs, such as 1=2, as in the following:

With the following assumptions:

The following must be true:

Dividing by zero gives:

Simplify:

The fallacy is the assumption that dividing by 0 is a legitimate operation with 0/0 = 1.

Most people would probably recognize the above "proof" as incorrect, but the same argument can be presented in a way that makes it harder to spot the error. For example, if 1 is written as "x", then 0 can be hidden behind "x"-"x" and 2 behind "x"+"x". The above mentioned proof can then be displayed as follows:

therefore:

Dividing by "x" − "x" gives:

and dividing by "x" gives:

The "proof" above is incorrect because it divides by zero when it divides by "x"-"x", because any number minus itself is zero. 


</doc>
<doc id="22965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22965" title="Flamenco pa tos">
Flamenco pa tos

Flamenco pa tos is a Spanish festival of Flamenco music. It is organized by the Gomaespuma Foundation. This festival is the most important festival in Spain. The profits of the festival are used by the Gomaespuma Foundation to help children in Managua. The Festival has been the winner of the National Awards of Flamenco during 2004 and 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="22969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22969" title="Peter I of Russia">
Peter I of Russia

Peter the Great (born in 1672, died in 1725) was a czar of Russia. He transformed Russia from an isolated kingdom into a transcontinental superpower. He also built the city of St. Petersburg which became the capital of Russia in 1711. He changed Russia's society, by making it modern like the European countries of the time. 


</doc>
<doc id="22971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22971" title="Note (music)">
Note (music)

In music, a note is a small bit of sound, similar to a syllable in speaking a language. For example: in the first two lines of the song "Twinkle, twinkle little star, how I wonder what you are" there are 14 notes: one for each syllable.

Confusingly, the word "note" can also mean the pitch of a note (how high or low it is). For example: the whole of the song "Twinkle, twinkle, little star" can be played using six different notes: C, D, E, F, G and A. 

The word "note" can also mean the written symbol of the note.

Nearly all music is made up of notes. Music without notes might be sound effects.

In most Western countries the notes (in the sense of the pitches) are given a letter of the alphabet according to their pitch. From lowest sounding to highest sounding: A, B, C, D, E, F, G. This pattern repeats, so that after G will come A. This A is an octave higher than the first A.

Because there are 12 notes needed in Western music, these 7 notes can have modifiers ("symbols or words that change them"). The two main modifiers are sharps, which raise the pitch a half-step, and flats, which lower the pitch a half-step. The symbol for a sharp is ♯ (like the hash symbol (American: number symbol): #). The symbol for a flat is ♭ (like a lower-case italic "b"). To un-flat or un-sharp a note, the natural symbol, ♮, is written before the note. When writing in words (like this page), the symbols are written after the note name, for example: "B♭" means B flat and "F♯" represents F sharp. However, when writing in music notation, the flat, sharp or natural signs are written BEFORE the note. A way to remember this is to say: if the sign came after the note, it would be too late, and you would have already played it, so it must go before so that you know what is coming.

Sharps and flats can also be written in key signatures. A key signature is written at the beginning of the piece, and repeated at the beginning of each line. It gives the sharps or flats which are going to be regular in the piece.

Two other modifiers are double sharps, which raise the note a whole step, and double flats, which lower the note a whole step. These are much less common that the simple sharp or flat, but can still be seen in some types of music. The symbol for a double sharp is × and the symbol for a double flat is ♭♭. For example, E♭♭ is another name for D. This is called an enharmonic equivalent. Another enharmonic equivalent is C and B♯.

In Italy and some other countries, notes are named Do, Re, Mi, Fa, Sol, La, Si ("or Ti") instead of C, D, E, F, G, A, B. This notation is called solfege in the United States. These notes are the focus for a song in "The Sound of Music".

Drum Kits do not have notes, they have places on the manuscript where each line means each Drum,
each symbol means each Cymbak on the Kit - how Many Times to hit it in what speed and beats
in a bar there are usually shown as 4/4 and you count 1 2 3 4 each bar.


</doc>
<doc id="22977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22977" title="Calabria">
Calabria

Calabria is a region of the south of Italy. The capital is Catanzaro. The population in 2004 was about 2.009.506 .




</doc>
<doc id="22978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22978" title="Newcastle">
Newcastle

There are two important cities in the world called Newcastle:


</doc>
<doc id="22981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22981" title="WordPress">
WordPress

WordPress is a piece of software used inside blogs. It is open source, licensed under the GPL, and written in PHP.

Users can write posts into the software and other people reading the post can write comments about it.

Since the release of Wordpress version 3.0, the software had been downloaded more than 27 million times.

Wordpress can be download and installed on any server with PHP installed. However, Wordpress has a service for users to host blogs, called Wordpress.com. It has a limit of 3 GB of free space, with an option to upgrade for more.



</doc>
<doc id="22982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22982" title="Outback">
Outback

The name outback describes the remote areas of Australia. The outback is not a defined area, it is only a term used to refer to locations that are far away from big cities. 
The fertile parts are known as Rangelands and have been traditionally used for sheep or cattle farming.
Agriculture, tourism and mining are the main economic activities in this vast and sparsely settled area.

Because of the expanses and remoteness in the outback a unique service, The Flying Doctor, was created in 1928. The aim of the service is to provide medical care to people who cannot reach hospitals or other doctors. Consultations are carried out via radio or telephone and for serious situations, doctors are flown out to the patients.

Organised travels with a guide to the outback is popular, although some Australian and international tourists travel in their own cars. Such a trip, especially off the few big roads in the outback, requires very good planning and a suitable vehicle (usually four wheel drive). On remote routes considerable supplies and equipment are required. Some big trips cannot be undertaken safely without a convoy of several vehicles. Deaths of tourists are a regular occurrences because many people are not well-prepared for their outback trip.


</doc>
<doc id="22988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22988" title="Marske-by-the-Sea">
Marske-by-the-Sea

Marske by the Sea is a village in the borough of Redcar and Cleveland in England. It has three primary schools and one secondary school (Bydales School), a museum, and two train stations.

The village has a Methodist, Roman Catholic (St Bede's) and Church of England (St Mark's) church.

Most of the people who live in Marske do not work in the village, but work in the nearby factory or in Middlesbrough or Redcar. Marske has a decent range of local shops. The Longbeck railway station and Marske railway station, which connect to Darlington mainline station, are the only means of transport there.



</doc>
<doc id="22991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22991" title="PayPal">
PayPal

PayPal is a website that allows money to be transferred between various email addresses. Someone who is sent money with this system can send it to other people, or withdraw it into a bank account.

eBay owns it.



</doc>
<doc id="22993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22993" title="Orson Welles">
Orson Welles

George Orson Welles (May 6, 1915 – October 10, 1985) was an American director of movies and the theatre, as well as an actor, screenwriter, broadcaster and producer.

In 1938, he performed "The War of the Worlds" (about an attack on Earth by beings from the planet Mars) on the radio. It was a radio drama (fiction), but many people took it as a newscast.

Welles also made the movie "Citizen Kane" in 1941. Many movie critics think that this film is the best movie ever made.



</doc>
<doc id="22996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22996" title="Slobodan Milošević">
Slobodan Milošević

Slobodan Milošević (Serbian: Слободан Милошевић, pronounced []; August 20, 1941 – March 11, 2006) was a Serbian, Yugoslav leader. He was President of Serbia from 1989 to 1997 and then President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 1997 to 2000. He was the leader of Serbia's ruling Socialist Party. He was a leader in the Yugoslav Wars. He also led his nation to defend itself against NATO aggression that took Kosovo from Serbia. NATO leaders charged him for war crimes and crimes against humanity during the bombing of Yugoslavia. He lost re-election in 2000. After his fall from power in 2001, he was taken to The Netherlands to stand trial at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, but died after five years in prison before the case could reach a conclusion. He did not recognize the tribunal calling it American/un puppet court and said he was being tried for standing up to NATO expansion. Many accusations against him regarding Kosovo proved to be false. It was said by the UN tribunal that Milosevic, who had chronic heart problems and a high blood pressure, died of natural causes.

Milosevic did not retreat his army because of NATO's 77 days of bombing. His goal was to keep Kosovo within Serbian parallel structures. Once resolution was passed, he retreated but also managed (with other politicians) to hold on to North Kosovo whose area is 1200KM2 or 11%, where 96% of its population is Serbian whose religion is Christian.


</doc>
<doc id="23015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23015" title="Gymnosperm">
Gymnosperm

The gymnosperms are a group of seed plants which includes conifers, cycads, "Ginkgo". The group may, doubtfully, include the Gnetales 

They have naked seeds, in contrast to the seeds or ovules of flowering plants (angiosperms) which are enclosed during pollination. Gymnosperm seeds develop either on the surface of scale- or leaf-like appendages of cones, or at the end of short stalks ("Ginkgo").

The gymnosperms and angiosperms together make up the spermatophytes or seed plants. By far the largest group of living gymnosperms are the conifers (pines, cypresses, and relatives), followed by cycads, Gnetales ("Gnetum", "Ephedra" and "Welwitschia"), and "Ginkgo" (a single living species).




</doc>
<doc id="23016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23016" title="Spanish flu">
Spanish flu

1918 flu pandemic (Spanish influenza), 1918-1919, was a bird flu (a type of influenza). It spread through the world killing between 50 million and 100 million people. The flu did not start in Spain. Spain was a neutral country in World War I, and so it did not censor its news. This made nearly all news reports of the disease come from Spain.


</doc>
<doc id="23017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23017" title="Brock (Pokémon)">
Brock (Pokémon)

Brock (also known as Takeshi in Japan) is a fictional character from the Pokémon video games, Manga and television series. He is often seen traveling along with Ash Ketchum and Misty on their journeys. One of his gags is that he swoons and falls in love with every girl he sees.

Brock appears in the game "Pokémon Red and Blue" and its remake "FireRed" and "LeafGreen" as the gym leader of Pewter City. He gives out the Boulder Badge and uses Rock-type Pokémon.

Brock appears in the first series of the anime. In his first appearance, he has many siblings and is in charge of them since his mother Lola is away chasing dreams and his father Flint ran away from the family. After Flint comes back, Brock then picks up and his bags and travels with Ash and Misty throughout the Indigo series. He ends up leaving the group when they get to the Orange Islands to work with Professor Ivy. He later returns and travels with Ash throughout Johto, Hoenn, and Sinnoh.



</doc>
<doc id="23022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23022" title="Zetland (lifeboat)">
Zetland (lifeboat)

The Zetland was a lifeboat in Redcar, England, and is the oldest lifeboat in the world which still exists. It was put in Redcar in 1802. In 1858, the lifeboat was given to the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI). The boat was damaged in 1864, and was to be destroyed - however, following protest it was given to the town's people. Today, it is in its own museum.


</doc>
<doc id="23024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23024" title="Silba">
Silba

Silba is an island in Croatia. It is found between the islands of Premuda and Olib. It has an area of 15 km² and its population (as of 2001) was 265; with the village of Silba located at the narrowest point in the middle. The main administrative centre is Zadar, found on the mainland.


</doc>
<doc id="23025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025" title="Ian Fleming">
Ian Fleming

Iam Fleming was a British author best known for writing the James Bond stories. He also wrote the book "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang" in 1964


</doc>
<doc id="23027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23027" title="1602">
1602



</doc>
<doc id="23028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23028" title="1676">
1676



</doc>
<doc id="23029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23029" title="301">
301



</doc>
<doc id="23030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23030" title="1611">
1611


Gov. Sir Thomas Dale arrives at Jamestown from England announcing new rules called "Laws Divine, Morall and Martial."


</doc>
<doc id="23034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23034" title="Raiders of the Lost Ark">
Raiders of the Lost Ark

Raiders of the Lost Ark, also known as Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark, is an adventure movie that came out in 1981 from Paramount Pictures.
The movie was directed by Steven Spielberg, and produced by George Lucas. It stars Harrison Ford as the main character, Indiana Jones. It is the first part in the "Indiana Jones" series. 

The movie has three sequels, "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" (1984) and "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" (1989), and "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull" (2008).

The movie was directed by Steven Spielberg (also from "Jaws"), and produced by George Lucas (who also made "Star Wars" and "American Graffiti").


At the start of the movie, Indiana Jones is trying to find the golden idol in the jungle in Peru. His guide, Sapito, betrays him and tries to take the idol for himself, but is killed in one of the traps. After Jones comes out from the temple, he finds his rival Belloq and a dozen of the native people holding spears. Jones gives up the idol and runs to his airplane.

While teaching at Marshall College, the U.S. Army comes up to him and says that the Nazis are trying to find the Ark of the Covenant. Jones wants to find it first, so he goes to a bar in Nepal. His old teacher, Abner Ravenwood, was trying to find the Ark and has the headpiece to the Staff of Ra, an important piece that is needed to find it. His daughter, Marion, now runs Abner's bar and she punches him in the face because they had a romance and he ran away. She, however, comes along with him after the Nazi person Toht and his friends try to get the piece themselves.

Jones and Ravenwood fly to Cairo and recruit a man named Sallah to help him out. They start digging in the area where they think it is. The Nazis capture Ravenwood and makes Jones thinks that she is dead. Sallah and Jones do some calculations and realize that the Nazis are digging in the wrong area because their staff is too long. Jones finds the right place and starts digging, finding it in a place called the Well of Souls. However, Belloq comes back, raises the Ark, and throws Ravenwood in there. They escape.

After a battle, Jones gets the Ark back. Sallah puts it on a ship, but the Nazis on a U-boat intercept the ship and search it. Jones escapes. He then takes a big weapon called Panzerschreck and threatens to blow up the Ark as it is being loaded onto an island. Belloq calls Jones' bluff, and Jones lowers his weapon. He and Marion are then tied up as Belloq and the Nazis test the power of the Ark by opening it. The spirits inside kill everyone. Jones and Marion close their eyes and escape the spirits' anger.

At the end of the movie, the government puts the Ark inside a warehouse. The Army tells Jones that they are studying it, but Jones does not believe them. Marion tries to comfort him by saying that she will buy him a drink.



</doc>
<doc id="23036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23036" title="Template:Unsigned">
Template:Unsigned


</doc>
<doc id="23044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23044" title="Ash Ketchum">
Ash Ketchum

Ash Ketchum (Satoshi in Japanese) is a character from the "Pokémon" anime. He is the main character in the television show. He often travels with his friends, Dawn and Brock. He has black hair and brown eyes. His first Pokémon was a lightning-tailed mouse named Pikachu.

Named after his and "Pokémon" series creator Satoshi Tajiri, Satoshi was designed by Ken Sugimori and Atsuko Nishida, and intended to represent Tajiri as a child.. His in-game counterpart, Red, first appeared as the player-controlled protagonist in "Pokémon Red" and "Blue", assuming the role of a Pokémon Trainer whose goal is to capture and train creatures called Pokémon, and use the creatures' special abilities to combat other Pokémon, or utilize them for new ways to navigate the game's world, such as instantaneous travel between two areas. An animated adaptation of the games later followed, with Satoshi voiced by Rica Matsumoto and redesigned by Sayuri Ichishi.

During localization of both for North American audiences, the character's name was changed in the anime to "Ash Ketchum", the first name taken from one of the possible default names players could select for the character in the games, and the surname tying into 4Kids former tagline for the series, "Gotta catch 'em all!"

Tajiri noted in an interview that between Japanese and American reactions to the series, Japanese consumers focused on Pikachu, while Americans purchased more items featuring Ash and Pikachu together. He stated that he felt the character represented the concept of the franchise, the human aspect, and was a necessity. Ash was given a rival, Shigeru. In an interview Tajiri noted the contrast between the character's relationship in the games and anime; while in the games, trainers Red and Blue were rivals, in the anime, Shigeru represented Satoshi's mentor. When asked if in either instance Satoshi would surpass his rival, Tajiri replied "No! Never!" However, Ash has surpassed Gary as a trainer in the anime, and Gary has since become a Pokémon researcher like his grandfather, Professor Oak.

Ash's character design was initially overseen by Sayuri Ichishi, replaced by Toshiya Yamada during the "Diamond and Pearl" storyline arc.

Veronica Taylor provided the voice of Ash in seasons one through eight of the English adaption of the "Pokémon" anime. After the script is translated from Japanese, the lines are adapted to fit the movements of the character's mouth (called "lip flap"). All the voices were recorded separately so Taylor was the only one in the booth when she recorded her lines, which took approximately six to eight hours. Taylor was often the first person to record so she had to "imagine how the previous line will be said. Luckily, I work with a great director who helps with the interpretation of the line, matching of the lip flap, and consistency of the voice." Taylor enjoyed playing Ash because of his "low, husky voice" and "energy and excitement".

Taylor commented that Ash and the other characters "loosened up" after the first ten episodes of the anime; she believed the writers were more relaxed and did no longer feel the pressure of making sure everything was done correctly. Taylor commented: "I enjoy playing [Ash] now much more than I did in the very beginning because I can have fun with him more, and we kind of know him and can work out how he really would react. We have the classic Ash responses and things like that." Sarah Natochenny replaced Taylor in season nine when Pokémon International took over the dubbing rights. In Japan, Rica Matsumoto provides the voice of Ash.

Red, the silent protagonist of "Pokémon Red", "Blue", and "Yellow" and its remakes, "Pokémon FireRed" and "LeafGreen", has several default names, one of which is "Red". Others include "Ash" (later used for anime character Ash Ketchum) and "Jack". In the game, Red is a young (assumed to be 10 years old) boy from Pallet Town. His adventure begins one day when Professor Oak calls the two of them to his lab and gives them each a choice of Pokémon. After receiving their Pokémon, Blue challenges Red to a battle. Later, Professor Oak summons both Red and Blue and gives them both a Pokédex each, and sends them on a journey to fulfill his dream of capturing every type of Pokémon.

In addition to the anime, Ash has made appearances in video games and manga. The only video game that Ash has truly appeared in to date is "Pokémon Puzzle League", where he tries to become a Pokémon Puzzle Master.

At the start of the series, ten-year-old Ash is starting out as a beginner Pokémon trainer in Pallet Town, his hometown. After receiving Pikachu as a starter Pokémon from Professor Oak, Ash left Pallet Town to start his journey. Since his departure, Ash has traveled the world of Pokémon, competed in many challenges, and catching many Pokémon. He currently travels with Iris and Cilan in Unova.

Ash has considerably improved his abilities as a trainer over the course of the series. However, his earnestness and determination remain the same. During the first season of the series, Ash trained to catch more Pokémon than his childhood rival, Gary Oak, although Gary was always shown to be the stronger trainer. He soon began to focus more on each of his Pokémon's abilities. Ash's primary nemesis is a group of antagonists named Team Rocket. Ever since the second episode, "Pokémon Emergency!", two Team Rocket operatives named Jessie and James, along with a talking Meowth, have tried to steal his first Pokémon, Pikachu as well as many others, but have always failed. Despite their constant antagonism, they occasionally put their differences aside and work together against a common adversary, such as in "", where they aid Ash in retrieving the three treasures in order to save the world.

The portrayals of Ash in the manga "The Electric Tale of Pikachu", "Pocket Monster Zensho", and "Ash & Pikachu", are very similar to the one in the anime. There are key differences in the manga, though. In "The Electric Tale of Pikachu", it is based on Ash's journey up until the end of the Orange Islands travel. Ash is usually seen traveling by himself during the course of this manga although he is joined by Misty and Brock in Indigo sometimes. Misty is the only one to join Ash in the Orange Islands. At the end of the series, The "Ash & Pikachu" manga is similar, although it has the episodes from the anime like "The Fortune Hunters" and "A Goldenrod Opportunity" combined, but with a couple of changes. In "Pocket Monsters Zensho", Satoshi (as Ash is known in Japanese) starts with Charmander instead of Pikachu. The manga ends at the Indigo Plateau, where Satoshi defeats the Elite Four. Manga author Toshihiro Ono cited Ash as one of his favorite characters to draw for the series, stating "I want to go on a trip with Misty just like him! (And forget about job, rent, etc.)".

In the "Pokémon Adventures" manga, Red is a Pokémon trainer and the protagonist of the first saga. Red starts off in Pallet Town as an aspiring trainer, and gets a Bulbasaur (later evolves all the way into a Venusaur) and a Pokédex from Professor Oak. He also has a Poliwhirl which he has known since childhood that evolves into a Poliwrath, and uses these two Pokémon on his adventure. He later captures a mischievous Pikachu, and, after working to gain its trust, it becomes one of Red's top three Pokémon. Antagonists include his rival, Oak’s grandson Blue, who was granted Charmander; Green, another Pokémon trainer from Pallet Town, who stole a Squirtle from Professor Oak; and Team Rocket, an organization bent on world domination through Pokémon.

The book "The Japanification of Children's Popular Culture" cited Ash as an example of consumer identification, with the character going through similar motions players of the games had to in order to progress through them. It additionally emphasized the character's growth and development as the anime series progressed.


</doc>
<doc id="23047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23047" title="Category:Fungi">
Category:Fungi


</doc>
<doc id="23048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23048" title="Pleiades">
Pleiades

Pleiades can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="23054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23054" title="Born">
Born

Born can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="23057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23057" title="World's Fair">
World's Fair

A World's Fair is a large exhibition of industry and culture. They are also called "expositions" or "expos". This type of exhibition occurs since the middle of the 19th century. The Bureau of International Expositions officially takes care of them. The "Bureau of International Expositions" is usually abbreviated BIE, from the organization's name in French: "Bureau International des Expositions".

List of official world expositions (BIE): 


</doc>
<doc id="23058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23058" title="Category:Society">
Category:Society


</doc>
<doc id="23061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23061" title="Métis people">
Métis people

The Métis (pronounced 'may-TEE' in English and 'may-TEES' in French), also known as Bois Brule, mixed-bloods, or Countryborn (Anglo-Métis), are one of the three divisions of Aboriginal peoples in Canada according to the Canadian government. Their home land is in the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba,Ontario,Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, as well as the Northwest Territories. The Métis Homeland also includes parts of the northern United States (specifically Montana, North Dakota, and northwest Minnesota). The Métis Nation are descendants of marriages of Woodland Cree, Ojibway, Saulteaux,Mi'kmaq and Menominee Indians (Native Americans) with French Canadian and/or British/Celtic settlers. Their history starts in the mid-1700's in the west and starts in the early 1600's in the east. Historically, many (but not all, only in the west) Métis spoke a mixed language called Michif. "Michif" is the Métis pronunciation of "Métis". The Métis today mostly speak English, with French as a strong second language, as well as many native language. The use of Michif is growing again thanks to the work of the provincial Métis councils.

The word "Métis" is French, and related to the Spanish word "mestizo". It means the same thing: "mixed blood"; both names come from the Latin word "mixtus", "mixed". 

It is hard to say how many Métis people in Canada and the United States have Métis ancestors, but it is more than can be known. 

Métis culture is an mixture of cultures of the First Nations, French Canadian, English, and Orkney/Scottish. The Métis are known for their love of fiddle playing, but traditional instruments also included the concertina, the harmonica, and the hand drum. This love for the fiddle has gone together with a kind of dancing called jigging. Traditionally, dancing included such moves as the Waltz Quadrille, the Square dance, Drops of Brandy, the Duck, La Double Gigue and the Red River Jig. 

Metis people were famous for their horsemanship and breeding of horses. The RCMP Musical Ride horses dance the Quadrille as begun by the Metis and their horses.

As the Métis culture grew, a new language called Michif was spoken. This language was a result of the combining of French nouns and Cree verbs. Though a distinct language, it is spoken by few people. Some guess that the number of Michif speakers is about 1,000. 

The sash, recognized as the symbol of the Métis nation in Western Canada has long been a part of Métis culture in the Maritimes. Originally made of vegetable fibres, Mi'kmaq women created colourful sashes using a finger-weaving technique. Later, the Assomption-style sashes were brought from Quebec and adopted by both Métis and Mi'kmaq alike. 

The clothing worn by Métis in the 19th century included the sash or "ceinture flechée". It is traditionally about three metres in length and is made by weaving yarn together with one's fingers. The sash is worn around the waist, tied in the middle, with the fringed ends hanging. Vests with Métis beadwork are also popular. The Red River Coat came from the Metis culture.

The Métis were important in Canada's past, as fur traders who came from the east coast, voyageurs (coureur de bois), frontiersmen, pioneers, and middlemen who communicated between the First Nations peoples and cultures, and the European settlers and colonists.

The most famous Métis was Louis Riel, who led two rebellions, the Red River Rebellion in 1869 in the area now known as Manitoba, and the North-West Rebellion in 1885 in the area now known as Saskatchewan. Some say these were not really rebellions. For example, in 1869 Riel was the leader of a government recognized by Canada as controlling territory that did not belong to Canada; Canada worked on the Manitoba Act with this government. After these "rebellions", land claimers and other non-Métis took away the Métis' land by taking advantage of a government program for buying it, with the government letting this happen. The province of Alberta gave some land to Métis in 1938 to fix what it thought was not fair, but Saskatchewan and Manitoba have not done the same.

Two other famous Métis leaders were Cuthbert Grant and Gabriel Dumont.

Born in 1940, in northern Saskatchewan, Metis writer and filmmaker Maria Campbell brought attention to the struggles of modern-day Metis and Aboriginal people with her book, "Halfbreed" (1973), and the play, "Jessica" (1982). She has shown the sound and song of traditional stories through her work in dialect, "Stories of the Road Allowance People" (1996).

On May 7, 2004, Métis Todd Ducharme became a judge of the Ontario Supreme Court of Justice.

Other well known Canadians of Métis descent are Sharon Bruneau, a Canadian female bodybuilder and fitness model, and Kevin O'Toole, 1996 North American Lightheavyweight bodybuilding champion. 

British Columbia New Democratic Party Leader Carole James is of partly Métis ancestry.

NHL star defenceman Sheldon Souray is of Métis ancestry.

Former Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin is of partly Métis ancestry.

Architect Douglas Cardinal is of Métis and Blackfoot ancestry.

Novelist Sandra Birdsell is the daughter of a Métis man and a Russian Mennonite woman and wrote her award-winning novel "Children of the Day" partly on her parents' experience in Manitoba in the 1920s-50s.

Canadian Professional Wrestler Ben Saulnier, better known for his ring name Jake Benson, is a Métis from Penetanguishene, Ontario, Canada.





</doc>
<doc id="23062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23062" title="Sangha">
Sangha

In Buddhism, the word sangha means "assembly" or "community." For Buddhists, there are two sanghas that are very important:

In Buddhism, there are three things that a Buddhist shows the greatest respect: the Buddha, the Dhamma (the Buddha's teaching), and the Sangha (the Buddha's community). So, for instance, when the sangha is talked about in very old Buddhist books, the following words are often used:



</doc>
<doc id="23064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23064" title="Courteney Cox">
Courteney Cox

Courteney Cox (born June 15, 1964) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Monica on the television series "Friends" and in the movie "Scream" and its sequels. Courteney got married to David Arquette between season 5 and 6 of "Friends", and changed her name to Courteney Cox Arquette but later changed it back in honor of her parents.



</doc>
<doc id="23065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23065" title="UEFA Champions League">
UEFA Champions League

The UEFA Champions League is a football competition between the best club teams in Europe. The teams are selected because of good performances in league matches. The teams used to have to win their countries' championship, but now more teams can qualify. Teams that have good performances but not good enough to qualify for the Champions League 

F.C. Barcelona are the current holders after they beat Manchester United 3-1 in Wembley Stadium on 28 May, 2011. Rodriguez, David Villa and Lionel Messi scored for Barcelona and Wayne Rooney for Manchester United. Manchester United had a chance to be the first team ever to win the Champions League twice in a row if they had won the finals against Barcelona on the 27 May 2009, but instead lost 0-2 in Rome. They beat Chelsea on penalties the year before in Moscow. Before the start of the Champions league in 1993, many teams had won the earlier version called the European Cup. Teams such as Ajax and Bayern Munich F.C. won the cup three times in a row. Real Madrid won it the first five times it was held. This is the record. They have also won the Champions League/European Cup nine times, which is also a record.

The 1st team ever which won the UEFA Champions League and all the other titles was Barcelona, after they have beat Manchester United 2-0, but year later Inter had reproduced the amazing achievement, after they have beat Bayern Munich 2-0.
In 2011 Barcelona beat Manchester United at Wembly Stadium in England.


</doc>
<doc id="23066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23066" title="FA Cup">
FA Cup

The FA Cup is a national football competition between all league clubs in England. The winner of the FA Cup usually goes through to the UEFA Cup of the following season. If the winner of the FA Cup has already qualified for a European competition, then the UEFA Cup place goes to the runner-up. If the runner-up has also qualified for a European competition, then the UEFA Cup place goes to 6th or 7th place, depending on who won the Football League Cup. Chelsea are the current winners of the FA Cup, as they beat Everton 2-1 in the final on May 30, 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="23067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23067" title="Old Trafford">
Old Trafford

Old Trafford is a football stadium in Manchester in England. It is home to the club Manchester United F.C. It is the biggest club stadium in Great Britain and second biggest stadium in Great Britain, with Wembley Stadium being the biggest. Old Trafford hosted most of England's home matches while Wembley was being built. It was built in 1910 and the Club has always been playing there. It has costed about 60.000.000 £.


</doc>
<doc id="23068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23068" title="Stadium">
Stadium

A stadium is a building in which lots of people may watch an event. They are often used for football and athletics. Some stadiums are paid to add a company name to the name of their stadium. For example, "Comerica" Park in Detroit, Michigan, or the ALLTEL Stadium in Jacksonville, Florida. When people do this the company has the "naming rights" to the stadium. The name of a stadium can change when another company buys the naming rights to that stadium. 

An arena is a small indoor stadium. Arenas are often used for many different types of events. These include sports and music. 



</doc>
<doc id="23073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23073" title="Disaster">
Disaster

A disaster is something very bad that happens to people and almost always changes their lives completely. Disasters can destroy homes and many kinds of work. Disasters can be of different kinds, but most are caused by forces of nature.

These may include avalanches (where snow comes down a mountain), cold (where animals and people freeze), diseases (sicknesses), droughts (when there is no water), earthquakes (where the ground moves), famine (where there is not enough food), fire that burns things and people, flood (where rivers grow too big and invade land), hail (hard ice falls like rain), heat that lowers the water supply, hurricanes that break everything, the hyper nova of a star that kills life, an impact event where meteors hit the earth, a limnic eruption (where bad chemicals come from lakes and can kill people), landslides and mudslides (where the top of the ground moves because of extra water), sink holes (where a cave falls in), solar flares (where the sun reaches out at the earth and burns it), storm surge (where water piles up and then suddenly comes on land), thunderstorms (rain with lightning and thunder), tornadoes (currents of wind that break things), tsunami (where a wall of water comes on land), volcanoes (where lava from inside the earth comes out slowly or shoots into the air), a waterspout (like a tornado on water), or winter storms (where snow falls thick and you cannot see).

Disasters caused by humans include aviation (flying) accidents, arson (lighting a fire to burn something), CBRNs (where a country has a powerful weapon), civil disorder (where people riot or do crimes), power outages (where electricity is interrupted), public relations crises where a company must tell bad news, radiation contamination (where nuclear weapons are used or accidentally get out of control), disasters in space, a telecommunications outage (not being able to communicate), terrorism (where a group attacks civilians or says they will attack to gain something), and war (fighting with weapons between large groups).

To live through a disaster, it is important that your family and your city prepare in advance. This may be making a pack of things you need in an emergency, it may be a government sending soldiers to help, or it may be something in between.

Theories vary widely about the cause of world disasters, and while most are controversial, the amount of followers that they attract show that there is perhaps some merit behind them. One notable theorist is named Fei Weixiang. Fei's theory centers around the idea that all world disasters stem from a single source. He believes he has tracked the source to Beijing, where he currently resides.




</doc>
<doc id="23074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23074" title="Bobby Orr">
Bobby Orr

Robert Gordon "Bobby" Orr (born March 20, 1948 in Parry Sound, Ontario) is a retired Canadian ice hockey defenceman.

Bobby Orr's ice hockey skills were evident at a very early age. He was signed by the Boston Bruins at twelve. As a 14-year-old, he played junior hockey against eighteen, nineteen and twenty-year-olds. He signed his first pro contract with the Boston Bruins in 1966.

In his first professional season, he won the Calder Memorial Trophy as top rookie in the league. Orr only played 46 games in the 1967-68 NHL season because he was injured, but won the Norris Trophy. In the 1969-70 season, he scored 120 points and became the only defenseman in history to win the Art Ross Trophy, for leading the league in scoring. He also won the Hart Memorial Trophy and the Conn Smythe Trophy. In 1976, Bobby Orr was named the most valuable player in the inaugural Canada Cup Tournament. Orr was traded to the Chicago Blackhawks in 1976. He would only play 26 games over the next three seasons because of problems with his knees. 

Orr was inducted in the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1979.


</doc>
<doc id="23076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23076" title="The Muppet Show">
The Muppet Show

The Muppet Show is a variety television series. It aired from 1976 until 1981. The series starred Jim Henson's Muppet characters. Each episode featured a famous guest star.

The main characters on the series are Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear and Gonzo.


</doc>
<doc id="23077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23077" title="1250">
1250




The population of the world in 1250 is around 400 to 416 million people.


</doc>
<doc id="23086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23086" title="Valencia (autonomous community)">
Valencia (autonomous community)

Valencia, Valencian Community, Valencian Country, Land of Valencia, or Region of Valencia is a Spanish autonomous community, in the east of the Kingdom. The population is 4,700,000 and the capital and biggest city is Valencia, with near 800,000. Valencia is also the capital of the Valencia province. The second-largest city is Alicante, with 320,000, capital of the Alicante province. The city of Elche in Alicante, with 215,000, is a very important industrial centre. Castellon, with 170,000, is the capital of the Castellon province.


</doc>
<doc id="23087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23087" title="Elx">
Elx

Elx (in Catalan) or Elche (in Spanish) is the third biggest city in Valencia, and the second in the Alicante province, in eastern Spain. The city has 215,000 inhabitants and is famous for its palm trees and the Mystery of Elx, a theatrical piece.


</doc>
<doc id="23094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23094" title="Java (programming language)">
Java (programming language)

Java is a programming language for computers that can run on many different machines including mobile phones. It was created by Sun Microsystems and released in 1995. Small Java programs, called applets, usually run inside web browsers. Java is currently one of the most popular programming languages in use, particularly for client-server web applications.
Java is not the same as JavaScript. JavaScript is a scripting language mainly used by web browsers.

Java is object oriented. Java code looks a lot like C++ or C code. Unchanged C++ or C code will not work in Java, in most cases.

Java can run on many different operating systems. This makes Java platform independent. Java does this by making the Java compiler turn code into Java bytecode instead of machine code. This means that when the program is executed, the Java Virtual Machine interprets the bytecode and translates it into machine code.

When Java was developed, this was done to reach five goals:
The "Java platform" refers to a group of software products from Sun Microsystems. The platform is used to develop and run Java programs. The platform includes the execution engine (called a Java Virtual Machine) that allows Java programs to do the same thing on different computer systems.

An example Hello World program:

There are many types of Java programs which run differently:


The programming language Java has also been criticised. Some of the criticisms are:



</doc>
<doc id="23098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23098" title="Eon">
Eon

The eon (sometimes spelled aeon) is a very, very long time. It is used as the name for a part of the Earth's existence lasting many millions of years.

In the science of geology, a geologic eon is part of Earth's existence, made up of a number of eras, which are of different lengths. A geologic era is made up of two or more shorter times called geologic periods. A geologic period is, in turn made up of yet shorter times called geologic epochs. 

Geologists have given names to all of the eons, eras, periods and epochs that they have found by looking at rocks. The names given to each eon describe something about that time, or the rocks that were made at that time.

For example, we are now in the Phanerozoic Eon, which comes from the Greek words for "life that we can see", that is, there were animals and plants big enough to see without a lens. This era started about 545 million years ago.


</doc>
<doc id="23101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23101" title="Bhagavad Gita">
Bhagavad Gita

The Bhagavad Gita is being showed as holy book of Hinduism. It was written thousands of years ago. It has teachings said to be given by LORD Krishna (an incarnation whom many Hindus believe to be the god Vishnu in human form.) In the book, Krishna is talking to Arjuna, an archer, before the kurukshetra war begins. Krishna tells Arjuna that he must perform his duty (called dharma) for his caste, and go to fight. Arjuna hesitates because he is fighting his friends, but in the end he listens to Krishna. He will not be led into the underworld for ever for his sins because he will now be reincarnated.

It was said to be holy book of hinduism only in 18th century when christianity was spread over indian subcontinent with an institutional form having a unique holy book, bible (Almost all the major religions have unique holy books). To make a institutional form to hinduism, bhagavad gita was uplift and said to be the unique holy book of hinduism.


</doc>
<doc id="23102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23102" title="Upanishad">
Upanishad

The Upanishads are some of the sacred books of the Hindu people. The Upanishads are part of a large collection of sacred books of Hindu people, called the Vedas. They are place at the end of the Vedas and they primarily deal with knowledge or wisdom. Because they deal with knowledge portion of the Vedas, they are called Jnana-Kanda (Jnana means knowledge). Also because they come at the end portion of the Vedas they are often called as texts of "Vedanta" ("veda": of vedas, "anta": at the end). Upanishads form the foundation of the philosophy of Hindu religion. 

The Upanishads are very well known around the world. They describe the fact that the humans should try to learn more, and understand more, about God. 

The Upanishads do not belong to a specific period of Sanskrit literature. The oldest, such as the Brhadaranyaka Upanishad and Chandogya Upanishad, may be as old as 8th century BC, while the youngest, depending on the specific Upanishad, may date to the medieval or early modern period.



</doc>
<doc id="23103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23103" title="Concert">
Concert

A concert (as in a "concert tour") is a performance in which a musician or many musicians play music together to a group of listeners (an audience). In the case of a concert of classical music there may be an orchestra. There is often an important visual element to the performance, such as with a rock concert. However, if acting out a story is an important part of the performance, then this is called "theatre" or "opera" but some concerts have dramatic, theatrical music, with lights and special effects. Informal names for a concert include "show" or sometimes, "gig" for musicians who play in lots of different concerts, with different groups. A "concert tour" is a set of concerts where the performers travel to different cities or towns.

The performers at a concert are usually raised above the level of the audience on a stage. Concerts may be held in concert halls which are built for the purpose, or they may be held in any other suitable large building such as a school hall, a nightclub, a barn or a large house or castle. Some concerts are given to very large audiences in the open air. They may take place in a field or in a stadium. The music for these “open-airs” is usually amplified by loudspeakers so that large audiences can hear it.

A concert given by just one performer (or perhaps two) is usually called a recital.

A group of concerts in one place or in one area that takes place for several days may be called a "festival". Examples are: The Proms, the Edinburgh Festival, the Glastonbury Festival etc.

Before the days of recording, a concert would have been the only opportunity most people would have of hearing concerts given by groups.

Usually people who go to a concert have to pay an admission charge. The money that is made from the ticket sales will usually go to paying the performing artistes, producers, and organisers. However, there are also benefit concerts where either the proceeds (all the ticket money) or profits (the money earned) will go to charity. Tickets for concerts can often be bought at the box-office of the concert hall or bought online. Sometimes concerts are free.

The nature of a concert will vary by musical genre and the individual performers. Concerts by a small jazz combo or small bluegrass band may have the same order of program, mood, and volume, but vary in music and dress. In a similar way, a particular musician, band, or genre of music might attract concert attendees with similar dress, hairstyle, and behavior. For example, the hippies of the 60s often toted long hair (sometimes in dread lock form), sandals and inexpensive clothing made of natural fibers. The regular attendees to a concert venue might also have a recognizable style, comprising that venue's "scene".

Some performers or groups put on very elaborate and expensive affairs, with parts of the show being similar to a theater performance. In order to create a memorable and exciting atmosphere and increase the spectacle, artists will have additional entertainment devices within their concerts. These tend to include: elaborate stage lighting; an image-magnification (IMAG) system and/or pre-recorded video; inflatables, artwork or other set pieces; various special effects, such as theatrical smoke and fog and pyrotechnics; and unusual costumes or wardrobe. Some singers, especially in genres of popular music, augment the sound of their concerts with pre-recorded accompaniment, back-up dancers, and even broadcast vocal tracks of the singer's own voice. Activities which may take place during these concerts include dancing, sing-alongs, and moshing. Some performers well known for including these elements in their performances include: Pink Floyd, Jean Michel Jarre, Sarah Brightman and KISS.

Concerts involving a greater number of artists, especially those that last for days, are known as festivals. Unlike other concerts, which typically remain in a single genre of music or work of a particular artist, festivals often cover a broad scope of music and arts. Due to their size, festivals are almost always held outdoors. A few examples of the hundreds of festivals include: Bayreuth Festival, Big Day Out, Coachella, Falls Festival, Glastonbury Festival, Mostly Mozart Festival, Newport Jazz Festival, Oxegen, Parachute Music Festival, Rock In Rio, Rockwave Festival, Salzburg Festival, Summer Sonic Festival, Tanglewood Music Festival, Woodstock Music and Art Festival, the Warped Tour, or the Umbria Jazz Festival.

A concert tour is a series of concerts by an artist or group of artists in different cities or locations. Often, concert tours are named, to differentiate different tours by the same artist and associate a specific tour with a particular album or product (for example: Michael Jackson's Bad Tour). Especially in the popular music world, such tours can become large-scale enterprises that last for several months or even years. They are seen by thousands or millions of people, and bring in millions of dollars (or the equivalent) in ticket revenues. 

Different segments of longer concert tours are known as "legs". The different legs of a tour are denoted in different ways, dependant on the artist and type of tour, but the most common means of separating legs are dates (especially if there is a long break at some point), countries and/or continents, or different opening acts. In the largest concert tours, it is becoming more common for different legs to employ separate touring production crews and equipment, local to each geographical region. Concert tours are often managed on the local level by concert promoters or by performing arts presenters.

While admission to some concerts is free, it is common practice to charge money for concerts by selling admission tickets. Historically, concerts were the primary source of revenue for musicians. Revenue from ticket sales typically goes to the performing artists, producers, venue and organizers. In the case of benefit concerts, a portion of profits will often go towards a charitable organization.

Additional revenue is also often raised through in-concert advertising, from free local concerts for local sponsorships to sponsorships from corporations during major tours, such as 2009's ""Vans' Warped Tour Presented by AT&T"". Both Vans and AT&T would have paid significant amounts to have their company names included at the forefront in all marketing material for the Warped Tour.

Concessions and merchandise are also often sold during and after concerts, often by the venue in the case of the former, and by the performing band or artist in the case of the latter.

The highest grossing concert tour of all time is The Rolling Stones' A Bigger Bang Tour which earned approximately $558 million in between 2005 and 2007. The highest earning tour by a solo artist is the Sticky & Sweet Tour by pop artist Madonna, which earned $408 million in 2008 and 2009.




</doc>
<doc id="23106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23106" title="Palm tree">
Palm tree

Palm trees are a family of plants. This family is called Arecaceae. Most of them are trees but some are shrubs. They grow in hot climates, but some have been planted as far north as Britain.

Well known palm trees are:

There are over two thousand kinds, living in many kinds of places from rainforests to deserts. 

Palms are one of the most well-known and widely planted tree families. They have had an important role to humans throughout much of history. Many common products and foods come from palms, and they are also used a lot in parks and gardens in areas that do not have heavy frosts. 

In historical times palms have been symbols for victory, peace, and fertility. Today, palms remain a popular symbol for the tropics and vacations .

Most palms are a straight, unbranched stem, but sometimes a branching stem, or even a creeping vine, such as the rattan. . They have large evergreen leaves that are either 'fan-leaved' or 'feather-leaved' and arranged in a spiral at the top of the trunk. The leaves have a tubular sheath at the base that usually splits open on one side when it is grown.. The flowers grow on an inflorescence, a special branch just for carrying the great number of tiny flowers. The flowers are generally small and white, and are star-shaped. The sepals and petals usually number three each. The fruit is usually a single seed surrounded by flesh. The familiar coconut is the seed of a large fruit. . Some kinds may contain two or more seeds in each fruit.

Over two-thirds of palms live in tropical forests, where some species grow tall enough to form part of the canopy and other shorter palms form part of the understory . Some kinds form pure stands in areas with poor drainage or regular flooding. Other palms live on tropical mountains above 1000 meters, Palms may also live in grasslands and scrublands, usually where there is water, and in desert oases. A few palms are adapted to extremely basic lime soils, while others are similarly adapted to very acidic soils .

The Coco de mer has the largest seeds of any plant, 30-50 centimeters in diameter and weighing 15-30 kilograms each. Raffia palms, with leaves up to 25 meters long and 3 meters wide, have the largest leaves of any plant. The Corypha palms have the largest inflorescence (flowering part) of any plant, up to 7.5 meters tall and containing millions of small flowers. The wax palm, Colombia's national tree, is the tallest palm in the world, reaching heights of 70 meters .

Palms first appear in the fossil record around 80 million years ago, during the late Cretaceous Period. Some kinds from that period are still to be seen today, such as the nipa palm or mangrove palm.

Like many other plants, some palms are in danger of dying out because of human activity. The greatest dangers are from Increasingly large cities, mining, and turning forests into farmland. The harvesting of heart of palm for food also poses a threat, because it comes from the inner core of the tree, and harvesting it kills the tree. The use of rattan palms in furniture has caused a big fall in the number of rattan palms, as they are collected from the wild instead of being farmed.. The sale of wild seeds to growers and collectors is another threat. 

At least a hundred kinds are in danger, and nine kinds are said to have recently died out. .

It is very hard to save palm seeds because they are killed by cooling them, which is the normal way of keeping rare seeds for the future. Also, planting rare kinds in parks can never truly recreate the wild areas they come from, and the plants may not do well in these parks. .

The Palm Specialist Group of the World Conservation Union (IUCN) started in 1984, supported by the WWF. The group gathered a lot of information from different parts of the world. An action plan to save rare palms was made by this group in 1996..

Human use of palms is as old as, or even or older than, civilization itself, starting with the growing of date palms by Mesopotamians and other Middle Eastern peoples 5000 years or more ago. The Date Palm had a great effect on the history of the Middle East. Historian W.H. Barreveld wrote:

The early importance of palms in the Middle East is shown in scripture. They are mentioned more than 30 times in the Bible, and more than 22 times in the Koran. 

Apart from the well-known coconut and date, there are other kinds of food from palms. Palm oil, Sago, heart of palm and palm wine are all eaten or drunk in different parts of the world. Palm oil is used in everything, from cosmetics to food ingredients.

South Carolina is nicknamed the Palmetto State, after the sabal palmetto, logs from which were used to build the fort at Fort Moultrie. During the American Revolutionary War their spongy wood helped stop the British cannonballs.

Coir is a coarse, water-resistant fibre from the outer shell of coconuts. It is used in doormats, brushes, mattresses, and ropes. Dragon's blood is a resin used in dyes, varnishes and incense, can come from the fruit of the rattan. The "Washingtonia robusta" trees line Ocean Avenue in Santa Monica, California.

Today, palms are popular in parks and gardens in countries outside the tropics. two of the most cold-tolerant species are the Chusan palm, from eastern Asia, and the needle palm from the United States .

The palm branch was a symbol of triumph and victory in Roman times. The Romans rewarded champions of the games and celebrated success in war with palm branches. 

Jews also had a tradition of carrying palm branches during festive times.

The motto of the University of Southern California is "Palmam qui meruit ferat", which means in Latin, "Let him bear the palm who has deserved it". 

Palms appear on the flags and seals of several countries where they are native, including those of Haiti, Guam, Florida, South Carolina, and Samoa.

The palm has many meanings in both ancient and modern Middle Eastern religions.
Early Christians used the palm branch to symbolize the victory of the faithful over enemies of the soul, as in the Palm Sunday festival celebrating the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem. 

In Christian art, martyrs were usually shown holding palms representing the victory of spirit over flesh, and it was widely believed that a picture of a palm on a tomb meant that a martyr was buried there. Origen calls the palm "the symbol of victory in that war waged by the spirit against the flesh. In this sense it was especially applicable to martyrs, the victors par excellence over the spiritual foes of mankind; hence the frequent occurrence in the Acts of the martyrs of such expressions as "he received the palm of martyrdom."

In Judaism, the palm represents peace and plenty. The palm may also symbolize the Tree of Life in Kabbalah. 

Prophet Muhammad is said to have built his home out of palm, and the palm represents rest and hospitality in many cultures of the Middle East. 

Palm stems represented long life to the Ancient Egyptians, and the god Huh was often shown holding a palm stem in one or both hands.

The sacred tree of the Assyrians was a palm that represents the god Ishtar connecting heaven, the crown of the tree, and earth, the base of the trunk. The Mesopotamian goddess Inanna, who had a part in the sacred marriage ritual, was thought of as the one who made the dates abundant .

The palm tree was a sacred sign of Apollo in Ancient Greece because he had been born under one .

The palm, especially the Coconut, remains a symbol of tropical island paradise .

The palm tree also represents Oasis.

Rabindranath tagore has written a long famous poem about a special genus of palm tree. 




</doc>
<doc id="23109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23109" title="Bailiwick of Guernsey">
Bailiwick of Guernsey

The Bailiwick of Guernsey is a territory belonging to the British Crown in the Channel Islands. The bailiwick includes the islands of Guernsey, Alderney and Burhou , Herm and Jethou as well as Sark, Little Sark and Brecqhou. 

A bailiwick is a territory governed by a bailiff. The Bailiff of Guernsey is the head of the parliament, the States of Guernsey, which makes the laws for the Bailiwick. But Sark and Alderney also have their own parliaments and pass some of their own laws. 

The Casquets (49°43.′4″N, 2°22.′7″W) are a group of rocks 13 km northwest of Alderney and are part of an underwater sandstone ridge. Other rocks which appear above the water are the islets of Burhou and Ortac. Not many plants grow on them.

Lihou is a small tidal island (95 vergees; 7ha) that is part of the Channel Islands. It lies off the west coast of Guernsey and is the most westerly point in the Channel Islands. Coordinates: 49°27′38.16″N, 2°40′4.44″W. The island was bought by the States of Guernsey in January 1995. Lihou is joined to Guernsey at low tide by an ancient stone path between the island and L'Eree headland. It is part of the Parish of St. Peter's.

The country code (also used for internet) is GG.



</doc>
<doc id="23111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23111" title="Alderney">
Alderney

Alderney is one of the Channel Islands in the English Channel between England and France. It forms part of the Bailiwick of Guernsey, but its parliament, The States of Alderney, still has the right to make laws for the island.

The traditional language was Auregnais, but nobody speaks it now.

During World War II Alderney was used to house four concentration camps by the Germans, who had occupied each of the Channel Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="23112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23112" title="Category:Guernsey">
Category:Guernsey

Guernsey


</doc>
<doc id="23114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23114" title="Hera">
Hera

Hera is the goddess of marriage, life and love in Greek mythology and is one of the Twelve Olympians. Hera is also a goddess of the sky and starry heavens. The Ancient Greeks said that Hera is the most beautiful goddess, even prettier than Aphrodite.
Her own special signs are the peacock, the pomegranate, and the cow. Her other important items are the crown and veil. 
Hera's parents are Cronos and Rhea. Her brothers and sisters are Zeus (who she also married), Hestia, Demeter, Hades, and Poseidon. Hera has one daughter and two sons, Hebe, Ares and Hephaestus. Athena is her stepdaughter. Hermes is her stepson. 
Hera is the queen of all the Greek gods and goddesses. She is often thought of as being wise and serious. Hera is also called 'The Queen of Heaven' because she rules over Mount Olympus where all the gods and goddesses live. Long before her marriage to Zeus, she ruled over the heavens and the Earth. She is responsible for every living thing, including the seasons and the weather. In most stories, myths and legends, Hera is the goddess of marriage. 

The name Hera means 'beautiful lady'.

Dionysus is a son of Zeus by a human woman. Hera tried to kill him when he was a baby with the Titans. The Titans were going to make Dionysis come to him by showing him toys, and then eat him. Zeus scared the Titans away with his thunderbolts, but the Titans had already eaten everything but Dionysus's heart. Zeus used the heart to make Dionysus again. He did this by putting the heart in the womb of Semele. Dionysis was then born for a second time.

Echo is a nymph in Greek mythology. She once had the job of distracting Hera from Zeus having relationships with other women. She did this by leading Hera away and flattering her. When Hera found out she was very angry with Echo. She put a curse on her that meant that she could only speak the words of other people after she had heard them. It is due to this story that we get the meaning behind the word "echo".

Io is a mistress of Zeus. Hera almost caught Io and Zeus together, but Zeus hid Io by turning her into a cow. Hera was not fooled and said that Zeus had to give her the cow as a present. Once Io belonged to Hera she was looked after by Argus. It was Argus's job to make sure that Io and Zeus were never together. Zeus ordered Hermes to kill Argus so that Io would be free. Hermes did this by killing Argus after he had been lulled to sleep. Hera then sent a gadfly to sting Io as she walked about on the earth.

Lamia is a queen of Libya who Zeus was in love with. Hera was jealous of Lamia and turned her into a monster. When she was a monster, Lamia then killed her children. Another version of this story is that Hera killed Lamia's children and was then so sad that she turned into a monster. Hera also put a curse on Lamia. The curse was that Lamia could not close her eyes. Hera choose this curse because she wanted Lamia to always think about the picture of her dead children. Zeus then gave Lamia the gift of being able to take her eyes out, so that she could rest. She could then put them back in again afterwards.

When Hera found out that Leto was pregnant with twins by Zeus she was angry. She banned Leto from giving birth on any mainland or island that was known. Leto found a floating island, called Dellos. It was neither a mainland or a "real" island, so Leto was allowed to give birth there. Artemis was born first, who then helped Leto to give birth to Apollo. Dellos was later held down with four pillars so that it would not float around anymore. It is said to be surrounded by swans and later became a sacred place to Apollo.



</doc>
<doc id="23119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23119" title="Category:London">
Category:London

London, England - capital city of the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="23124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23124" title="Mirror">
Mirror

A mirror or looking-glass is something that reflects light. One common "plane mirror" is a piece of special flat glass that a person can look into in order to see themselves or what is behind them.

Sometimes, a flat piece of metal or the surface of water can act like a mirror.

The reason you are able to see yourself in a mirror is because light comes in and gets reflected, and that's how you are able to see your reflection. Mirrors can have magnification properties, making images appear smaller or larger than their actual size. They can also be concave (curved inward) or convex (curved outward), making the reflected angle and view to be smaller or larger, respectively.

Special mirrors in a museum are good to check out. Some make a person's appearance look quite strange. Also, in a mirror, writing appears backwards, as a "mirror image" of the original writing.

Mirrors are usually made out of sand, in the manner glass is made, but some mirrors have been made of polished metal to show a nearly clear view.

Mirrors with a curved surface can make things appear bigger or smaller, like a lens does.


</doc>
<doc id="23126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23126" title="Space probe">
Space probe

A space probe is an unmanned space mission, usually a small spacecraft sent out to find out information about a planet. Space probes can be sent to space because to find information about other galaxies. The probe will then send this information back to Earth or a manned spacecraft.


</doc>
<doc id="23143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23143" title="Blue's Clues">
Blue's Clues

Blue's Clues is a television series for young children. It airs on Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. block. It originally aired from September 8, 1996 to August 6, 2006. On the show, Blue is a blue dog. Her owner was Steve, until 2002, when Steve went off to college. Now Steve's younger brother, Joe, owns her.
"The Blue's Clues Movie" appears as a series finale


</doc>
<doc id="23179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23179" title="Ford Motor Company">
Ford Motor Company

The Ford Motor Company (often described simply as Ford) is an American company that makes vehicles. This company is named after its founder, Henry Ford.

Ford's first car was made in 1908. It was called a Model T.

These car makers are also owned by Ford:


In 1896, Henry Ford had an idea to make a Quadricycle, the first "horseless carriage" he built. This four-wheeled vehicle was very different from cars we drive now. It was very different even from vehicles Ford produced just a few years later. Nevertheless, this marked the start of Ford's career as a businessman. Until the Quadricycle, Ford's tinkering had been experimental and theoretical. For example, in the 1890's, Ford built a gas engine on his kitchen table—just an engine with nothing to power. Enough people liked the Quadricycle, and much could be done with the it, so it led to the beginning of Ford's business.

Ford Motor Company started on June 16, 1903, when Henry Ford and 11 business helpers signed the company's formation papers. The first Ford production car, the Model A, was sold in Detroit, Michigan a few months later. With $280,000 (around 165 000 pounds), the pioneering industrialists made what was to become one of the world's largest companies. Few enterprises helped shape the history and development of industry and society in the 20th century as did Ford Motor Company.

Perhaps Ford Motor Company's single greatest contribution to automotive manufacturing was the (moving) assembly line. First implemented at the Highland Park plant (in Michigan, US) in 1913, this new technique allowed individual workers to stay in one place, to perform the same task repeatedly on multiple vehicles as they passed on the assembly line. The line proved tremendously efficient; it helped the company far surpass production levels of its competitors. Ford had discovered how to produce more affordable vehicles.

Henry Ford insisted that the company's future lay in the production of affordable cars for a mass market. In 1903, the company began using the first 19 letters of the alphabet to name new cars. In 1908, the Model T was born. 19 years and 15 million Model T's later, Ford Motor Company was a giant industrial complex which spanned the globe. In 1925, Ford Motor Company acquired the Lincoln Motor Company, under which name it built luxury cars. In the 1930's, the name " freddie Mercury" was given to a division centered on mid-priced cars. Ford Motor Company was growing.

The 1920s

The 1930s
1932 Ford Model B Coup

The 1950s

The 1960s

The 1970s

The 1980s

The 1990s 
The 2000s

Current


</doc>
<doc id="23185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23185" title="Rastafari movement">
Rastafari movement

A Rastafarian (often called a Rasta) is a member of the Rastafari movement. Most Rastafarians live in the Caribbean, most notably Jamaica.

Rastafarians say that Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia, is Jah (shortened from Jehovah). They say that Jesus has returned again (in the form of Haile Selassie I, a.k.a. Jah), as he promised in the Bible, and he will deliver them to Zion, their name for paradise or Ethiopia.

There are several things that define a rastafarian: They do not drink alcohol, they do not cut their hair, they spirituality smoke marijuana, they have a strict all natural (often vegetarian) diet, and they believe in Jah and Zion.

Their diet is called I-tal (derived from the word vital) and is something like Jewish kosher but sometimes with no meat at all.

Dreadlocks are a common hairstyle of Rastafarians. For them, dreadlocks are an expression of spirituality: The term "dread" refers to a "fear of the Lord".

Naturality is an important part of the Rastafari way of life. They want to return to Africa and live naturally. They think that smoking marijuana helps them to get in touch with god, Jah, and their way of life is improved when they practice meditation.

Many reggae musicians are part of the Rastafari movement, including the famous musician Bob Marley, who died in 1981.


</doc>
<doc id="23190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23190" title="John Constable">
John Constable

John Constable (East Bergholt, Suffolk 11 June 1776 – London, 31 March 1837) was a famous English painter and artist. 

His family had plenty of money because his father owned a business running corn mills. Constable's father wanted his son to take over the business after him, but Constable started painting at an early age, and convinced his father to let him follow art as a career.

He married Maria Bicknell in 1816, and they had seven children. She died in 1829 of Tuberculosis.

His paintings are treasures of British art, but in his lifetime his work was appreciated more in France. Constable's most famous painting, "The Hay Wain" (now in the National Gallery in London), was first shown at the Paris Salon in 1824. He had to wait until he was 52 years old before the Royal Academy voted that he should be a member.

Constable was influenced by the French painter Claude Lorrain. His most famous paintings are landscapes showing the countryside around Dedham and Flatford, where his father's mills were.

Constable's idea was to use nature itself, rather than imagination. He told Leslie, "When I sit down to make a sketch from nature, the first thing I try to do is to forget that I have ever seen a picture".

Although Constable produced paintings throughout his life for the market of patrons and R.A. exhibitions, on-the-spot studies were essential. He never just followed a formula. "The world is wide", he wrote, "no two days are alike, nor even two hours; neither were there ever two leaves of a tree alike since the creation of all the world; and the genuine productions of art, like those of nature, are all distinct from each other".

Constable painted many full-scale preliminary sketches of his landscapes in order to test the composition in advance of finished pictures. These large sketches, with their free and vigorous brushwork, were revolutionary at the time. The sketches for and convey a vigour missing from his finished oil paintings of the same subjects. Compare the composition of this preliminary study with the finished painting: . Possibly more than any other aspect of Constable's work, the oil sketches reveal him to be an avant-garde painter, one who showed that landscape painting could be taken in a totally new direction.

Constable's watercolours were also remarkably free for their time. The almost mystical "Stonehenge", 1835, with its double rainbow, is often considered to be one of the greatest watercolours ever painted. When he exhibited it in 1836, Constable appended a text to the title: "The mysterious monument of Stonehenge, standing remote on a bare and boundless heath, as much unconnected with the events of past ages as it is with the uses of the present, carries you back beyond all historical records into the obscurity of a totally unknown period".
In addition to the full-scale oil sketches, Constable completed numerous studies of landscapes and clouds, to become more scientific in his recording of atmospheric conditions. The , for example, prompted a critic to write: "the atmosphere possesses a characteristic humidity about it, that almost imparts the wish for an umbrella". 

The sketches were the first ever done in oils directly from the subject in the open air. To convey the effects of light and movement, Constable used broken brushstrokes, often in small touches, which he worked over lighter passages. This gave an impression of sparkling light over the landscape. One of the most expressionistic and powerful of all his studies is "Seascape Study with Rain Cloud", painted in around 1824 at Brighton, which captures with slashing dark brushstrokes an exploding shower at sea. Constable also became interested in painting rainbow effects, for example in "Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows", 1831, and in "", 1833.
To the sky studies he added notes, often on the back of the sketches, of the prevailing weather conditions, direction of light, and time of day, believing that the sky was "the key note, the standard of scale, and the chief organ of sentiment" in a landscape painting. In this habit he is known to have been influenced by the pioneering work of the meteorologist Luke Howard on the classification of clouds. "I have done a good deal of skying", Constable wrote to Fisher on 23 October 1821.

Constable once wrote in a letter to Leslie, "My limited and abstracted art is to be found under every hedge, and in every lane, and therefore nobody thinks it worth picking up". He could never have imagined how influential his honest techniques would turn out to be. Constable's art inspired not only contemporaries like Géricault and Delacroix, but the Barbizon School, and the French impressionists of the late nineteenth century.


</doc>
<doc id="23214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23214" title="Alyssa Milano">
Alyssa Milano

Alyssa Milano (born December 19, 1972 in Staten Island) is an American actress. She is best known for her appearance in the 1980s television series "Who's The Boss?". She has been one of the stars of The WB's series "Charmed" since 1998.


</doc>
<doc id="23215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23215" title="A Beautiful Mind">
A Beautiful Mind

A Beautiful Mind is a book and an Academy Award-winning movie (starring Russell Crowe, Ed Harris, Jennifer Connelly, Christopher Plummer, and Paul Bettany). It is about the mathematician John Nash, who won a Nobel Prize in Economics, and his experiences of schizophrenia. The biography was written by Sylvia Nasar. 

The book was published in 1998. The movie based on the book was released in 2001.


</doc>
<doc id="23220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23220" title="McGurk effect">
McGurk effect

The McGurk effect shows how hearing and vision are used for speech perception. Named after the man who found it, Harry McGurk, it says that we do not hear speech with only our ears. We use our other senses too. The McGurk effect may be experienced when watching a video of a person saying /ga/ with a sound-recording saying /ba/. When this is done, a third sound is heard: /da/. 

The McGurk effect is robust: that is, it still works even if you know about it. This is different from certain optical illusions, which do not work anymore once you can see it.



</doc>
<doc id="23221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23221" title="J. M. W. Turner">
J. M. W. Turner

Joseph Mallord William Turner (Covent Garden, London, 23 April 1775 – Chelsea, London, 19 December 1851) was an English painter and artist. He was one of the greatest artists of landscape painting, with a great mastery of light and colour.

His father was a maker of wigs. His mother was ill with mental problems, and the young Turner was sent to live with his uncle in Brentford, where he first started to paint.

Turner became a student at the Royal Academy of Art school in London when he was 14 years old. He was accepted into the Academy a year later. He had a watercolour painting in 1790 in the Academy's important art show. He had only been studying for a year. In 1802, at the age of only 28, he was elected a member of the Royal Academy, and later became its Professor of Perspective. 

In 1802, Turner travelled around Europe, visiting France and Switzerland. He also went to the Louvre in Paris. During his life, he often travelled across Europe, visiting Venice in Italy several times. As his personal style developed, he began to produce paintings that were generalised or exaggerated in form and colour, rather than realistic or detailed. These caused much argument as to their artistic value, but nowadays are his best loved works. On his death, he left 300 oils and 20,000 watercolours to the British nation. Some of his watercolours are the most abstract or generalised of his paintings.

Turner never married, although he had two children with his mistress Sarah Danby. For much of his life, he lived with his father, who helped him in his studio until he died in 1829.

In his early career, Turner was influenced by the painters Claude Lorrain and Nicolas Poussin, who painted "historical" landscapes.

Turner became interested in natural catastrophes, and natural phenomena such as sunlight, storm, rain, and fog. He was fascinated by the violent power of the sea. His paintings revolve around the light of the sun, shown in infinite variety. His work showed some of the ideas of the impressionists decades before they arrived on the scene. Monet, in particular, studied Turner's methods. 

His most famous paintings include "The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up". Often called just "The Fighting Temeraire", this is a picture of a famous warship that was used in the Battle of Trafalgar. Other pictures include "Rain, Steam and Speed", which shows a steam train crossing a bridge, and "Snowstorm" which shows a steamship in a snowstorm trying to get into a harbour. In order to get the right feeling into this painting, he had himself tied to a ship's mast during a storm, so that he could see what it was like. Some of his most famous paintings show the roughness of nature, with bleak landscapes and violent storms.

But also there is beauty and a sense of calmness in pictures such as Crossing the Brook, a stunning scenic view of the Tamar Valley and River from New Bridge near Gunnislake in Cornwall, painted in 1815, a view which can still be admired today. 

As he grew older, Turner's behaviour became a bit odd, and he became depressed quite often. He died in Chelsea on 19 September 1851, and was buried next to the painter Joshua Reynolds in St Paul's Cathedral.

Even while Turner was alive, some people thought he was a genius. Some people complained that the pictures he painted when he was older were not realistic, and some even joked that they could have been painted with a mop. However, most think that his way of painting shows complete mastery.


</doc>
<doc id="23242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23242" title="Mug">
Mug

A mug is a container for liquids. People might talk about getting "a mug of beer" at a local pub. They might also drink a mug of coffee in the morning.
As a verb, to mug someone means to rob them of something.


</doc>
<doc id="23312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23312" title="Claude Monet">
Claude Monet

Claude Monet (14 November 1840 – 5 December 1926) was a French painter and artist.
One of his most famous paintings was called "Water Lillies", which he repeated many times in various conditions.

Born in Paris, France, His father wanted him to help run the family's grocery business. However, Monet wanted to be an artist. When he was young he met the painter Eugène Boudin who taught him to use oil paints, and encouraged him to paint out of doors.

Monet joined the French army in Algeria for two years from 1860-1862. When he became ill he left the army to study art at university. He did not like the way art was taught, and joined the painter Charles Gleyre in his studio. He met other artists here, including Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Alfred Sisley. They shared their ideas about painting.

In 1866 Monet had a child with Camille Doncieux, who had been his model. They married in 1870. In 1870 he moved to England to escape the Franco-Prussian War, and in 1871 he moved to Argenteuil near Paris where he painted some of his most famous pictures. In 1873 he painted "Impression, Sunrise", showing the sea at Le Havre. When this picture was shown in 1874 one critic took its title and called the group of artists "Impressionists". He intended to make fun of the artists, but the name has stuck and this is what people today call this style of painting.

In 1879 Camille died of tuberculosis. Alice Hoschedé decided to help Monet by taking care of his children as well as her own. In 1883 they moved to a house in Giverny where Monet planted a large garden. Monet married Alice in 1892.

Monet found that his garden inspired him to paint pictures of it, particularly the water lilies. Alice died in 1911, and his son Jean was killed in World War I in 1914. 

Monet used broad brush strokes to build up his pictures, and painted quite quickly to try and get the idea of the light he could see into his paintings. If you go very close to one of his pictures it is hard to see what it shows, but if you stand back everything becomes clear.

His later paintings include series, in which he paints the same subject in different light. For example he painted a series of pictures of haystacks in a field, and another series of pictures of the west front of Rouen Cathedral.

Monet died of lung cancer in Giverny.


</doc>
<doc id="23322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23322" title="Video">
Video

Video is a technology. It is used to record moving images onto some medium. This is done either using a Video recorder (also called a VCR) or a video camera. The medium is usually packaged as a cassette.

A popular video format was the VHS. It was used by many people to record television programmes onto cassettes. This is usually an analog format.

By extension, a Video clip is a short film, usually starring some artist who recorded an (audio) album. to promote the album, video clips are produced.


</doc>
<doc id="23334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23334" title="Exodus">
Exodus

Exodus is the second book in the Torah, or Books of Moses. Exodus in Hebrew is called "Shmowt", which means "names." 

Exodus means 'going out' in Latin. It is about how the Hebrew people were led out of Egypt by God. Moses, their leader, hears God's words and in turn tells to the Israelites. Exodus ends with God's laws and his instructions on how to build a holy container called the Ark of the Covenant.

After the Hebrews went to Egypt to get food, the Pharaoh made each Hebrew a slave. The Pharaoh made the Hebrews work for them very hard, and told them to throw their babies into the Nile River. Moses, who was put in a reed basket and later rescued by an Egyptian princess, later killed a Egyptian slave-driver. He escaped from Egypt and lived away from his people in Midian for Jethro, his father-in-law.

One day, while Moses was tending his flocks, God appeared in a burning bush to Moses and instructs him to lead the Israelites out of Egypt. As Moses had no confidence in doing this task, God gives him his brother Aaron to help him. Aaron was a good talker and helped Moses speak to the Pharaoh.

When he returned to Egypt, Moses asked the Pharaoh to let the Israelites go, but the Pharaoh refused. Through God's power, Moses causes ten plagues to come on Egypt.

The last plague was the death of all the firstborns in Egypt. Only the Israelites' firstborns were spared, as they have the blood of a young lamb on their door when this happened. The Pharaoh finally decided to let the Israelites go. 

While the Israelites were crossing the Red Sea, the Pharaoh changed his mind and decided to pursue them with his troops. The Israelites passed safely as Moses parted the Sea with his staff by God's power but once they all passed the sea closed, leaving all the Pharaoh's troops to drown.

Later, at Mount Sinai, Moses receives the law and the Ten Commandments from God. The Israelites, however, sinned against God by worshiping an idol (a golden calf). Moses breaks the first two stone tablets of the Ten Commandments in anger. God later gives him another two. He also instructs Moses how to build the Ark of the Covenant.

The book has been filmed several times, as 'The Ten Commandments' and `The Prince of Egypt'. 


</doc>
<doc id="23340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23340" title="Stretching (body piercing)">
Stretching (body piercing)

Stretching is a word used to describe a kind of body modification. It is when a person widens a pierced hole in their body.

Stretching is usually done a little bit at a time, so the pierced hole would not bleed or get infected. 

There are some common ways used to stretch piercings, of different origins and useful for different people.





Body jewellery is measured in gauges from 20g up to 000g; sizes larger than that are measured in fractions of inches. In Europe they are measured in millimeters.

The table below is not exact, but very close.


</doc>
<doc id="23341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23341" title="Chernobyl disaster">
Chernobyl disaster

The Chernobyl disaster occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Pripyat, Ukraine. At that time, Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union. 

The event was the worst accident in the history of nuclear power. Because there was no containment building to trap the radiation, radioactive fallout drifted over parts of the western Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Scandinavia, the UK, and the eastern United States. Large areas of Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia were badly contaminated. About 60% of the radioactive fallout landed in Belarus. About 350,000 people needed to be evacuated (moved away) and moved to other places where they could live after the accident.

The accident raised concerns about the safety of the Soviet nuclear power industry. It slowed its expansion (getting bigger) for some time. It also forced the Soviet government to become less secretive. Since then, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus became separate countries. Those countries have been burdened with continuing costs for decontamination (removing the radiation) and health care because of the accident. Exposure to radiation leads to a higher risk of getting cancer. It is difficult to accurately tell the number of deaths caused by the events at Chernobyl. The Chernobyl accident happened when some workers where testing the safety of the reactor. Some of the devices that stopped the reactor from blowing up were switched off. Then, there was a power surge; they lost control and the reactor blew up.

Most of the people affected have not died yet. When and if the people involved die of cancer, or related diseases, it will be hard to tell if this was because of the accident. A 2005 IAEA report tells of 56 direct deaths, 47 of those were accident workers and 9 were children who died of thyroid cancer. The report estimates that up to 4,000 people may die from long term diseases related to the accident. Greenpeace, along with others, thinks that the study's conclusions may be false.



</doc>
<doc id="23342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23342" title="Prypiat, Ukraine">
Prypiat, Ukraine

Prypiat (Ukrainan: При́п'ять, "Pryp”iat’"; Russian:При́пять, "Pripyat"; Belarussian: Прыпяць, "Prypyac"' ) is an abandoned city in northern Ukraine. It lies in Kiev Oblast, near the border with Belarus. It was home to Chernobyl nuclear power plant workers. The city was abandoned in 1986 after the Chernobyl accident, the worst nuclear reactor accident in history. Before being abandoned, about 48.000 people lived in the city. The city was founded in the 1970s, when the nuclear power plant opened.
The site today is practically a museum showing the late Soviet era. With entirely abandoned buildings, including abandoned apartment buildings (four of which were yet to be used), swimming pools and hospitals, everything inside remains, from records to papers to children's toys and clothing. Prypiat and the surrounding area will not be safe for people to live there for several centuries. Scientists think that the most dangerous radioactive elements will take up to nine hundred years to decay sufficiently to render the area safe.

The city is entirely accessible and is relatively safe on the road, although it is unsafe to go around the city without a dosimeter. The doors of all the buildings are open to reduce the risk to visitors, although many have accumulated too much radioactive material to be safe to visit. 




</doc>
<doc id="23344" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23344" title="Thyroid cancer">
Thyroid cancer

Thyroid cancer is cancer of the thyroid gland. There are four forms: papillary, follicular, medullary and anaplastic. The most common forms (papillary and follicular) are slow growing and may happen again but patients under 45 rarely die from it, and the medullary form also has a good prognosis if it only grows in the thyroid gland and a poorer prognosis if it has spread; the anaplastic form is fast-growing and responds poorly to therapy.

Thyroid nodules are diagnosed by ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (USG/FNA) or frequently by thyroidectomy (surgical removal and subsequent pathological examination). As the thyroid cancer can uptake iodine, radioactive iodine is a commonly used modality in thyroid carcinomas. However, it is followed by TSH suppression by Thyroxine therapy.


</doc>
<doc id="23345" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23345" title="Containment building">
Containment building

Containment building is a building with a nuclear reactor in it. It is built around the reactor to keep the radiation from getting out, if something happens to the reactor. The containment building is the last barrier to the radiation getting into the environment. Containment systems for nuclear power reactors are distinguished by size, shape, materials used, and suppression systems. The kind of containment used is determined by the type of reactor, generation of the reactor, and the specific plant needs.

The Chernobyl accident was very bad partly because Soviet reactors had no containment buildings.

The diagram shown to the right demonstrates the order of defense layers for a nuclear reactor. The first layer of defense is the inert, ceramic quality of the uranium oxide itself. The second layer is the air tight zirkonium alloy of the fuel rod. The third layer is the reactor pressure vessel made of steel more than a dozen centimeters thick. The fourth layer is the pressure resistant, air tight "containment building". The fifth layer is the exclusion zone around the reactor.


</doc>
<doc id="23346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23346" title="Chernobyl">
Chernobyl

Chernobyl (Ukrainian: Chornobyl [Чорно́биль]; Russian: Chernobyl [Черно́быль]) is a city in northern Ukraine, near the border with Belarus. It was a major communications node and important centre of trade and commerce, especially in the 19th century. The city is located 14.5 kilometers (9 miles) south by south-east of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which became known for the Chernobyl accident. The plant exploded on April 26, 1986; clouds of radioactive particles were released, and the severely damaged containment vessel started leaking radioactive matter. More than 100,000 people were evacuated from the city and other affected areas. Despite the fact that radiation is still being emitted from the nuclear disaster site, the 800-year-old city of Chernobyl survives. As of 2004, government workers still police the zone.They try to clean up radioactive material. Hundreds of people — mostly the elderly — have decided to live with the dangers and have returned to their homes in the zone's towns and villages. Their population was highest in 1987, when there were more than 1200 people. In 2003, there were about 300.


</doc>
<doc id="23356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23356" title="Category:Cities in Ukraine">
Category:Cities in Ukraine

This category lists cities in Ukraine


</doc>
<doc id="23359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23359" title="Klaus Wowereit">
Klaus Wowereit

Klaus Wowereit (*1 October 1953 in Berlin) is a German politician. He has been the SPD Governing Mayor of Berlin, Germany since 2001. He and his party won 31.4% of the votes in the 2001 state elections, and he started a coalition government with Linkspartei.PDS. He was President of the Bundesrat in 2001/02. He was re-elected as Governing Mayor in 2006, and has carried on the coalition.

He supports Kurt Beck as "Kanzlerkandidat", the SPDs nominee for the Chancellorship of Germany. Many people wanted Wowereit to be the candidate, not so many after he decided to stay in coalition with Die Linke after the 2006 elecctions.

He is also openly gay.

Klaus Wowereit attended the Ulrich-von-Hutten-Oberschule in Berlin until 1973. He went on to study law at the Free University Berlin, passing his first State Exams in 1981 and the second set in 1984.

After university Wowereit spent three years as a civil servant in the Senate Office (that is, Ministry) of the Interior. At the age of 30, he was became the youngest councillor in the city of Berlin when he was elected a councillor of Tempelhof Borough. After eleven years he stood for the Berlin House of Deputies Abgeordnetenhaus which is City's Landtag or state legislature in 1995. In December 1999, he was elected chairman of the SPD parliamentary group in the Abgeordnetenhaus. Since June 2001 he has served as Governing Mayor, "Regierender Bürgermeister", of Berlin.

Wowereit is one of the most famous German politicians who has openly declared himself homosexual. He came out at a convention of the Berlin SPD just before the 2001 mayoral elections, when he said "Ich bin schwul, und das ist auch gut so." ("I am gay, and it's good that way".) This is now a famous quotation in Germany. He probably came out so that the tabloid newspapers could not publish what they thought were embarrassing stories about him.

Wowereit is not the only gay mayor of a large European city. Bertrand Delanoë, the mayor of Paris, is openly gay, and Ole von Beust, the former mayor of Hamburg, is also gay.

In September 2007, Wowereit published an autobiography called ""...und das ist auch gut so."", after his famous coming out phrase.



</doc>
<doc id="23360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23360" title="Sino-Soviet Split">
Sino-Soviet Split

The Sino-Soviet Split happened when China's leader, Mao Zedong, did not want to be friends with the Soviet Union anymore.

The Soviet leader, Stalin, wanted to help spread communism, especially in China. During the Chinese Civil War, the Soviets gave weapons and supplies to the Kuomintang because they were supposed to win, but once the Communists were going to win for sure, Stalin and the Soviet Union decided to help them. This is one of the main reasons for the Sino-Soviet Split since the Soviets didn't help Mao and the Communists from the start.

Suddenly, in 1953 Stalin died. Mao saw and acted Stalin as the leader of Communism, but also had a negative relationship with the Soviet Union throughout his time as leader. Now that Stalin was gone, he wanted to be leader. He always wanted to be just like Stalin, so now he wanted to be the leader of Communism. The new Soviet leader, Nikita Khrushchev, was not like Stalin. He did not want capitalism to collapse like Stalin did, and he did not really care. Mao got angry about this, and he wanted Nikita Khrushchev to help him crush the "imperialists". Khrushchev said no, and then Mao decided that if Khrushchev was not going to play his way, they would not play at all. Mao got so mad at Khrushchev, he even tried to invade the Soviet Union. (See Sino-Soviet border conflict) The Chinese army was neglected and undertrained by Mao, who did not really care much about the welfare of his army. The "People's Liberation Army" was stopped at the border, and the Soviets gave him one last chance to surrender, or face invasion. Mao somehow came to his senses and agreed to stop attacking the Soviet Union.

There was peace between the USSR and China, but they were suspicious of each other. They were no longer friends. Mao's supporters said that it had been a victory.


</doc>
<doc id="23368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23368" title="Awake">
Awake

Animals are awake for some hours each day or night. They are awake when they do not sleep. When they change from being "asleep" to being awake, it is said that they wake up, or awaken.

Animals which are awake during the day are called "diurnal". Animals which are awake during the night are called "nocturnal".

Diurnal animals, including humans, wake up in the morning, and are awake during the day. During the day they eat and move about. People may work or go to school during the day.


</doc>
<doc id="23372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23372" title="Category:Chinese people">
Category:Chinese people


</doc>
<doc id="23374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23374" title="Liu Bei">
Liu Bei

Liu Bei (161-223) was the founder of the Chinese Shu Han dynasty and its first emperor.

He went into battle against the Yellow Scarves rebellion in 184, along with his sworn brothers Guan Yu and Zhang Fei. Later (in 190) he joined Gongsun Zan against the evil Dong Zhuo who had seized the Han emperor Xian. After Dong lost, the emperor was in the clutches of his followers -- until Cao Cao saved him and seized control over him. Cao Cao tried to conquer all of China for the emperor but in fact wanted to conquer it for himself. He defeated Liu Bei once at the Battle of Changban in 207 but was not able to win the Battle of Red Cliffs against the united forces of Liu Bei and Sun Quan, a warlord in the South.

Sun Quan granted Liu Bei some land in the West of his domain, and the two agreed to fight Cao Cao again if necessary.

From 211 to 214, Liu Bei conquered the country Ba Shu in the West. Because he had now an empire of his own, Sun Quan demanded his western regions back but Liu Bei declined. This made Sun Quan quite angry.

After several useless battles against Liu Bei's general Guan Yu, Cao Cao chose to ally with Sun Quan. They attacked Guan Yu with their allied forces and overthrew him in 219. Liu Bei was mad and swore revenge for the death of his brother and the loss of an important part of his empire.

When Cao Cao died in 220, his son Cao Pi forced Emperor Xian of Han to abdicate. Cao Pi declared himself Emperor of the Wei Dynasty. Liu Bei found that offensive, for he was a member of the royal family of Han and considered himself the righteous Emperor of China. That's why he declared himself emperor of the Shu Han in 221. The next year, Sun Quan claimed the title "Emperor of Wu" for himself.

Liu Bei was really mad at Sun Quan's arrogance. In 222 he opposed him in the Battle of Yiling but failed due to Lu Xun's (a Wu general) great tactics. After his defeat Liu Bei got ill and died a year later. His son Liu Shan followed him as emperor.


</doc>
<doc id="23375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23375" title="Cao Cao">
Cao Cao

Cao Cao (曹操 155-220) was a Chinese general. He managed to control the last Han Emperor Xian and conquered the whole northern China.

Cao Cao gathered an army in 184 to fight against the Yellow Scarves rebellion. After the Dong Zhuo had seized the Emperor Liu Bian in 189 and deposed him in favour of his brother Liu Xie (Emperor Xian), a coalition of local warlords all over the country arose against Dong. It was called by Cao Cao and led by Yuan Shao, and many powerful warriors joined it.
After Dong Zhuo's death through the hands of his foster son Lü Bu, Emperor Xian was controlled by Dong's associates. He fled to Chang'an (the old capital) in 195 but almost starved to death. Cao Cao saved him in 196 and brought him to his own place at Xuchang.

With the emperor under his control, Cao Cao managed to slay most of the minor warlords in Northern China and was even able to defeat Lü Bu and the powerful Yuan Shao at Guandu in 200. He tried to conquer the south, too, but Liu Bei and Sun Quan opposed him and defeated his forces in the "Battle at Red Cliffs". Cao Cao led several campaigns against the south, but with fairly low success. Also, he managed to get the famous general Guan Yu killed by Sun Quan's general Lü Meng.

Cao Cao died in 220, and his son Cao Pi followed him in control of the emperor. He eventually deposed him the same year and became Emperor Wen of Wei, making his father posthumously "Emperor Meng of Wei".


</doc>
<doc id="23376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23376" title="Zhang Fei">
Zhang Fei

Zhang Fei (167-221) was a warrior in ancient China. He fought along with his brothers Liu Bei and Guan Yu for the restoration of the Han Dynasty.

In the battles against the Dong Zhuo, Zhang fended off the enemy general Lü Bu and was greatly rewarded by his then-ally Cao Cao. When Cao Cao tried to crush Liu Bei's folk in 207, Zhang Fei drew the whole enemy forces back by yelling really loud. Some historians believe that the yell crushed the bridge in front of him, some say that the leading general of Cao Cao's army died of fear.

Zhang Fei was later killed by his own officers, because after the death of his brother Guan Yu, he became a drunk.


</doc>
<doc id="23377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23377" title="Dong Zhuo">
Dong Zhuo

Dong Zhuo (董卓 139-192) was a reckless general in ancient China. He took control over the imperial court of Han in 189. He was later killed by his own foster son, Lu Bu.

Dong Zhuo had been a successful warrior and general since his youth. Anyway, he was defeated by Yellow Scarves rebels in 184 and demoted. After the death of Emperor Ling, the eunuchs kidnapped the young follower Liu Bian and his brother Liu Xie. Dong Zhuo freed them and intimidated the kidnappers so they committed suicide by drowning in the Yellow River. Dong then brought the emperor and his brother back to the capital Luoyang and seized perfect control over the court. Because Liu Bian seemed too stupid to him, Dong deposed him and made his brother Liu Xie emperor instead (Emperor Xian). In 190 he poisoned Liu Bian.

Dong Zhuo became arrogant and violent. He even forced the emperor to move to the city Chang'an as capital instead and burned Luoyang. Because of that, many warlords and Han generals all over the country formed an alliance to destroy Dong's reign. After some fierce battles, Lü Bu knew that his position was lost, and killed his foster father Dong in 192.

Dong's associates Guo Si and Li Jue continued to control the emperor, but they started struggles and the emperor escaped. He was rescued by Cao Cao in 196.


</doc>
<doc id="23378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23378" title="Sun Quan">
Sun Quan

Sun Quan (孫權 182-252) was an ancient Chinese warlord and founder of Eastern Wu in 222.

His brother Sun Ce conquered Southeastern China from 197 until his death in 200. Sun Quan was in charge at the age of 18. He continued to expand his empire and drew back the forces of Cao Cao in the "Battle at Red Cliffs" (along with Liu Bei). To have better opportunities against the north, he gave his Jing Province to Liu Bei so that he could create an empire on his own. Liu Bei conquered the other western territories from 211 to 214 and set his brother Guan Yu in charge of defending Jing.

Now that Liu Bei had his own empire, Sun quan demanded his western province back from him, but Liu Bei declined. In alliance with Cao Cao, Sun Quan's general Lü Meng captured Guan Yu in 219 and slayed him along with his son, Guan Ping.

After Cao Cao's son Cao Pi started the Wei Dynasty in 220, Liu Bei also wanted to be an emperor and declared himself Emperor of Shu Han in 221. He considered himself the righteous heir of the abdicated Han emperor Xian. Sun Quan declared himself "King of Wu" in 222. Liu Bei found that offensive, and launched a great attack against Sun Quan but failed -- due to Lu Xun's great tactics. He died a year later.

Under the regency of the Shu prime minister Zhuge Liang, the alliance between Shu and Wu was renewed. Both empires did not have to worry about their defense in the west/east after that.

In 229, Sun Quan declared himself "Emperor of Wu". His attacks on Wei were all in vain but he managed to develop his country very well. After his son Crown Prince Sun Deng died in 241, he made his now-oldest son Sun He Crown Prince. All along the next nine years, He would have trouble with his brother Sun Ba who wanted to be Crown Prince instead. Their fight even caused the honorable general Lu Xun to die of anger in 245.

In 250, Sun Quan was sick of his sons' struggles and deposed them both as princes. Instead he made his youngest son Sun Liang Crown Prince. Two years later, Sun Quan died at the age of 70. For his follower was too young to rule on his own, the official Zhuge Ke became regent.


</doc>
<doc id="23381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23381" title="Conference">
Conference

A conference is an event where people get together to discuss things. For example, scientists usually present their findings at conferences. Many other types of people other than scientists attend conferences also. Business people sometimes come together to talk about things. Using modern media, like the Internet, or the telephone people can talk to each other that are not in the same place. This is then called a conference call. Very often, digital video cameras can be used to transmit images, as well as sound.


</doc>
<doc id="23383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23383" title="Template:Mn">
Template:Mn


</doc>
<doc id="23384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23384" title="Template:Mnb">
Template:Mnb

. ^ 

</doc>
<doc id="23385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23385" title="Pasture">
Pasture

A pasture is a piece of land. Usually grasses and herbs are grown on it. Then cattle is put on for "grazing". The cattle is later sold or slaughtered to provide meat.


</doc>
<doc id="23386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23386" title="Hectare">
Hectare

One hectare is a unit of measurement. It measures the area of something. It is equal to 2.47 "acres". A hectare is 10,000 square meters.

A square plot of land with 100 m length for a side, is one hectare. 


</doc>
<doc id="23387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23387" title="Zhuge Liang">
Zhuge Liang

Zhuge Liang (181-234) was a Chinese politician and general of the ancient Shu Han Dynasty.

He helped his lord Liu Bei conquer the country "Ba Shu" from 211 to 214, along with Pang Tong. After Liu Bei's death in 223, Zhuge Liang was a regent for the new emperor Liu Shan. Zhuge Liang attempted to conquer the Southern Wei territories five times but had no success. He died in 234, leaving the regency to Jiang Wei.


</doc>
<doc id="23389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23389" title="Wavelength">
Wavelength

A wavelength is the length of the shortest repeating part of a "sine wave". All waves can be formed by adding up sine waves. That is, every wave is a total of sine waves. 

Waves are everywhere in the natural world. Examples of waves:
All of these waves are sums of sine waves. 

Here is a picture of a sine wave, showing its "wavelength":<br>
<br>
The sine wave has a pattern that repeats. The length of this repeating piece of the sine wave is called the wavelength. The wavelength can be found by measuring the length or distance between one peak of a sine wave and the next peak. The wavelength can be found in many other ways too. 

There are other properties of waves and sine waves, such as their frequency, amplitude, phase, and speed. 

A symbol used for wavelength most often is the Greek letter "lambda" (λ).


</doc>
<doc id="23391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23391" title="Francis Scott Key">
Francis Scott Key

Francis Scott Key (August 1, 1779 - January 11, 1843) was an American lawyer and poet. He is best known for writing the "The Star-Spangled Banner", which is the national anthem of the United States of America. He went to college at St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland. 

His mother was Ann Phoebe Penn Dagworthy (Charlton) and his father was Captain John Ross Key.


</doc>
<doc id="23397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23397" title="Latex">
Latex

Latex is found in the sap of the Para rubber tree. The tree takes its name from the state of Pará, Brazil. Latex is used to make rubber. Brazil, in particular the city of Manaus grew rich on latex. Today, much natural latex comes from Southeast Asia, particularly Malaysia and Indonesia. Rubber can be produced synthetically (this means that it can be made in factories).


</doc>
<doc id="23398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23398" title="Drum">
Drum

A drum is a musical instrument that is struck with the hands or with a drum stick (a stick for hitting a drum). A collection of drums and cymbals is called a drum kit, or drum set. 

It is used to keep a steady beat in a song. It is also used in many kinds of music to give the music a sense of feeling. For example, if you wanted a song to be slow, the drums play slower, and the same goes for if you want the song to be fast.

A drum is a percussion instrument, which means it makes a noise by being hit. There are many types of percussion such as cymbals and cowbells; even a simple piece of wood can be considered percussion. 

The drum kit is a group of drums & cymbals to make beats for music. Drum kits are used in most types of popular music, including rock, jazz, country, blues, and many others.



</doc>
<doc id="23402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23402" title="Pashupatinath">
Pashupatinath

Pashupatinath is one of the most sacred temples of Hindu. It is in Kathmandu, the capital city of Nepal. It is the temple of the Hindu god Shiva.


</doc>
<doc id="23403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23403" title="Invasion">
Invasion

Invasion is a word that comes from Latin. Originally, it meant that something "goes in" (as in military occupation) of a foreign territory. So far, the following uses are known:


One of the many examples is the importing of rabbits to Australia. As they had no enemies, they did what rabbits do best. They multiplied. To get rid of them, people then thought about importing foxes as well.


</doc>
<doc id="23404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23404" title="Template:Wikisource author">
Template:Wikisource author


</doc>
<doc id="23405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23405" title="Template:Gutenberg author">
Template:Gutenberg author

Works by at Project Gutenberg

</doc>
<doc id="23407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23407" title="Olive tree">
Olive tree

The olive tree is a small tree. Its scientific name is "Olea europaea". A long time ago, it came from the coastal areas of the eastern Mediterranean, from Syria and the maritime (next to the sea) parts of Asia Minor and northern Iran at the south end of the Caspian Sea. It has been farmed for a very long time. The Ancient Greeks were farming it. They spread the trees to the western part of the Mediterranean. 

Olive trees like soil with lots of chalk in it. They grow best on limestone slopes and crags in coastal climate. 

The Wild Olive is a small tree or shrub that grows up to 8–15 m tall with thorny branches. The leaves are opposite, 4–10 cm long and 1–3 cm wide. The leaves have a dark greyish-green color above and are pale with whitish scales below. The small white flowers, with calyx and corolla divided into four parts, two stamens and bifid stigma, are mostly on the last year's wood, in racemes coming up from the axils of the leaves. The fruit is a small drupe 1–2 cm long, thinner-fleshed and smaller in wild plants than in orchard cultivars.

Today, olive trees are grown for the following reasons:

In total, about 17.3 million tons of olives are produced every year. 60% of all olive trees are in the European Union. The top producers are:

Very probably, the first olive trees were grown in Syria. From there they spread rapidly. In Ancient Greece, the tree was seen as holy. Some city states (polis) like Athens punished people for cutting down olive trees.

The branches in the flag of the United Nations are those of an olive tree.

In Christianity, the olive tree can be a sign of peace, because according to the Bible, a dove brought an olive branch to Noah to show that the flood was over.
<br clear=left>


</doc>
<doc id="23410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23410" title="Hello">
Hello

Hello is a greeting in the English language. It is common between two people in a non-formal (informal) setting, but can also be used in a formal setting. There are also many other ways of saying "hello", for example a wave of the hand, a salute or a bow (both very formal), a handshake or a high five (very informal). Saying "hello" is a sign of politeness, especially when it is said in a friendly way. "Hello" was first used in writing in about 1833.

Hello is also used by many people when they are answering a phone call. Sometimes, people can say "Good morning" in the morning or noon, "Good afternoon" in the afternoon, and "Good evening" in the evening.

Some more versions of the word "hello" include; Hi, Hallo, Hiya, Hey, Yo, 'Yello, Yeller (mainly in the southwestern United States) and many more.

On instant messaging, people greet others using "hello" or other versions of it.

The opposite of hello is goodbye, which is said when people leave.

The German word for "hello" is "Hallo", and the French word is "bonjour".

The English versions for hello are used in German too.

"Hello" also used to be said as an exclamation or shout, but this is quite rare nowadays.
"Hello" is one of the most used words in the English language.


</doc>
<doc id="23413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23413" title="Annexation">
Annexation

Annexation (Latin: "ad" "to" and "nexus" "joining") means one territory is being merged with another. The territory being annexed is usually the smaller or weaker one, which becomes an inseparable part of the bigger one.


</doc>
<doc id="23414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23414" title="Manchuria">
Manchuria

Manchuria is the homeland of the Manchu people (related to Chinese and Mongolians). This place is in north-east China. Parts of Manchuria were annexed by the Russian Empire so they are now ruled by Russia.

Manchuria is a translation of the Chinese word Manzhou (Chinese language: 滿洲,Mǎnzhōu). 

In the early history, Manchuria was under the control of many Chinese kingdoms. Later, the Manchu people formed their own empire called Jurchen. They eventually invaded China and founded the Chinese Qing Dynasty. 

Although China signed a treaty with Russia, the Russians took advantage of the weak Qing government and annexed the part that touches the Pacific Ocean. Japan then attacked the Russians to get this important piece of land. Later, Japan invaded the Chinese part of Manchuria too (see Manchukuo). This eventually lead to World War II.

After the war, Manchuria was returned to China and Russia.

Manchuria is in north-east China and the Russian Far East. The land has rocks, grasslands, mountains, and deserts. The weather is very extreme. It is very hot and humid in the summer and it is very cold and dry in the winter.


</doc>
<doc id="23416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23416" title="Tuva">
Tuva

Tuva is part of Russia. Another way to spell it is Tyva. It is in south Siberia. During the Chinese Qing Dynasty, Tuva was part of the province of Mongolia. From 1921 to 1944, Tuva was a separate country called Tannu-Tuva. In 1944, it joined Russia. 

Before they joined Russian, Tuvans were nomadic people. They traveled on horses. Therefore, horses were very important in Tuvan culture. Tuvan art often shows horses. And many Tuvan songs are about horses. Tuvans lived in yurts (round, felt covered houses that are easy to take apart and carry). Even today, a few Tuvans are nomads. Ethinically they are Mongols. However, during the Soviet period, they were washed their brain as they are different from Mongols.

Tuvans are famous for their throat singing. Throat singing is a very old art. And it is very special because a throat singer can sing two or more notes at the same time. Throat singers imitate the sounds of nature. They can sound like a bird or like the howling wind. One style of throat singing has a rhythm like a horse trotting. For many centuries only men were allowed to be throat singers. But now women are throat singers too. Singing more than one note at the same time is sometimes called overtone singing.

Tannu-Tuva was also famous for its colorful and unusual postage stamps. Some were triangles. Many showed interesting pictures of life in Tuva.

Tuvans speak their own language, which is called Tuvan. It is a Turkic language. And it is related to Turkish. Before Tuva joined Russia, the Tuvan language used the Roman alphabet, which is the same alphabet that English uses. Since Tuva joined Russia, they use the Cyrillic alphabet, which is the same alphabet that Russian uses. Because Tuva is part of Russia, Tuvans also learn to speak Russian.

Kyzyl is the capital city of Tuva. The name means "red" in Tuvan. Tuvans say that Kyzyl is the exact center of Asia. And there is a monument to the Center of Asia in the capital. But others think that Kyzyl is not the exact center of Asia. Nevertheless, Tuva is in Central Asia. And Tuvan culture is similar to the culture of their neighbors in other Central Asian countries.

Tuva is in a mountain basin between the Sayan Mountains and the Tannu-Ola Mountains. In the east, Tuva has forests. In the west, the land is drier.

The average temperature in January is −32 °C (−25.6 °F). The average temperature in July is +18 °C (64.4 °F).

Many Tuvans have two religions. One is Shamanism. The other is Tibetan Buddhism. Many Tuvan people believe in both.




</doc>
<doc id="23417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23417" title="Senkaku Islands">
Senkaku Islands

The Senkaku Islands are in the East China Sea.
They are also called , the Diaoyu Dao Islands () and Diaoyutai Islands (). 

The group of islands, islets and rocks is east of mainland China, northeast of Taiwan, west of Okinawa, and north of the southwestern end of the Ryukyu Islands. The islands are about 200km from Taiwan, and about 300 km from Okinawa.

Control over these islands and rocks is disputed. The dispute issues are complex. 
The Japanese government describes the islands as part of Japan. 

The islands are also described as part of China. There are conflicts in the positions of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Republic of China (ROC). The PRC and ROC have a shared history. 

The United States occupied the islands from 1945 to 1972 when they reverted to Japan. The official US position is neutral in a dispute among Japan, China and Taiwan.



</doc>
<doc id="23419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23419" title="Sino-Japanese War">
Sino-Japanese War

There were two wars known as the Sino-Japanese War (between China and Japan):



</doc>
<doc id="23421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23421" title="Ryukyu Islands">
Ryukyu Islands

Ryukyu Islands (琉球列島 Ryukyu-rettō) or Nansei Islands (南西諸島 Nansei-shotō) are a chain of islands located between China and Japan. The weather is tropical and gets lots of rain and storms.

The Ryukyu Kingdom (琉球王国 ryūkyūōkoku) was an independent kingdom which ruled most of the Ryukyu Islands from the 14th century to the 19th century. In 1372, it became a tributary of China. In 1609, a Japanese invasion forced it to become a tributary to Japan also. The Ryukyu Kingdom was annexed by Japan during the Meiji Restoration.

Karate was invented by the local people (mainly from Okinawa). The Japanese did not allow the locals to own weapons, so karate was developed (karate means "way of the empty hands")


</doc>
<doc id="23422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23422" title="World Youth Day">
World Youth Day

World Youth Day (WYD) is a gathering (meeting) of young Catholic people. It was created by Pope John Paul II in 1984 "to consolidate the ordinary youth ministry by offering new encouragement for commitment, objectives which foster ever greater involvement and participation". In other words, the Pope wanted young Catholics to come together, and work together.

The day is celebrated around the world every year, and every two or three years, a gathering is held at a different place. Thousands of people (including young people) from many countries go to this celebration. Because of World Youth Day, many young people are more likely to work together around the world.

The last World Youth Day celebration was held in 2005, in Cologne, Germany, the country in which Pope Benedict XVI was born in. About 1,200,000 attended the event. In 2008 World Youth Day was held in Sydney, Australia


</doc>
<doc id="23424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23424" title="Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden">
Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden

Carl XVI Gustaf (born 1946) is the king of Sweden since 1973. He is married to Silvia Sommerlath who is half German, half Brazilian. With her he has three children:

Internationally King Carl XVI Gustav is best known for presenting the Nobel Prizes every year.


</doc>
<doc id="23429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23429" title="Age of Empires III">
Age of Empires III

Age of Empires III is a 2005 computer game made by the company Ensemble Studios. It is published by Microsoft. It is the third game of the Age of Empires games, and has better graphics than the ones before it. It is a Real-time strategy game. The plot is from 1500 to 1860. An expansion pack, "Age of Empires III: The WarChiefs", was released for the game on October 17, 2006.
It was published several years ago (October 18, 2005), so it will run on almost any recent computer. It is only compatible with Microsoft Windows XP and Windows Vista. The game is on three CDs.



</doc>
<doc id="23432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23432" title="Bank of China Tower">
Bank of China Tower

The Bank of China Tower (BOC Tower, 中銀大廈) is one of the most well known skyscrapers in the central parts of Hong Kong. In the tower, the Bank of China has their offices.

The tower was designed by the architect I. M. Pei and is 315 meters high. On the tower there is two masts that is 369 meters (1209 feet) high.


</doc>
<doc id="23433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23433" title="Ulan Bator">
Ulan Bator

Ulaanbaatar, or Ulan Bator, is the capital and largest city of Mongolia. The city is an independent municipality not part of any province, and its population as of 2008 is just over 1 million. In the north central part of the country, the city is at an elevation of about 1310 m in a valley on the Tuul River. The city is the bigger point in the country for culture, industry and finance. Ulan Bator is connected by highway to all the major towns in Mongolia and by rail to the Trans-Siberian Railway and Chinese railroad network. The city was founded in 1639 as a Buddhist monastery center and, in the 20th century, grew into a major manufacturing center.

Ulan Bator has had numerous names in its history. From 1639–1706, it was known as Örgöö (Mongolian: Өргөө, "residence"), and from 1706–1911 as Ikh Khüree (Mongolian: Их = "great", Хүрээ = "camp"), Da Khüree or simply Khüree. Upon independence in 1911,the city's name changed to Niislel Khüree (Mongolian: Нийслэл = "capital", Хүрээ = "camp"). When the city became the capital of the new Mongolian People's Republic in 1924, its name was changed to Ulaanbaatar, literally "red hero", in honour of Mongolia's national hero Damdin Sükhbaatar, that liberated Mongolia from Ungern von Sternberg's troops and Chinese occupation with the Soviet Red Army. In Europe and North America, Ulan Bator was generally known as Urga (from "Örgöö") or sometimes "Kuren" (from "Khüree") or "Kulun" (from 庫倫, the Chinese transcription of "Khüree") before 1924.

Ulan Bator is at about 1350 meters (4430 ft) above sea level. For this high elevation, and for the high latitude, and location hundreds of kilometres from any coast, Ulan Bator is the coldest national capital in the world, with a subarctic climate.

Most important events:

- 1639: The city was Founded.

- 1778: the city settled for good at its current location, near the confluence of the Selbe and Tuul rivers and beneath Bogd Khan Uul, back then also on the caravan route from Beijing to Kyakhta.

- 1911: Mongolian leaders in Ikh Khüree for Naadam met in secret and resolved upon independence from China for their country. On December 29, 1911, the Bogd Khan was declared ruler of an independent Mongolia.

- 1919: the city was occupied by Chinese troops

- 1921: the city has been controlled first by Baron Ungern's Whites Soldateska, and in July to the Soviet-supported Mongolian troops controlled by Sükhbaatar. 

- October 29, 1924: the town was renamed to Ulaanbaatar ("red hero") in honour of Sükhbaatar.

- 1956: The Transmongolian Railway, connecting Ulan Bator with Moscow and Beijing, was completed.

- Many of the temples and monasteries of pre-socialist were destroyed following the anti-religious purges of the late 1930s.

- After the growth of 1990 many buildings as, cinemas, shops were built. Now the biggest cinema is Urguu and Tengis cinema. Main shopping district is 3rd and 4th distirict.

- 2008, Ulaanbaatar was the scene of riots after the opposition Mongolian Democratic Party protested its defeat by the MPRP in parliamentary elections.

Ulan Bator is divided into nine districts (Düüregs): Baganuur, Bagakhangai, Bayangol, Bayanzürkh, Chingeltei, Khan Uul, Nalaikh, Songino Khairkhan, and Sükhbaatar. Each district is subdivided into Khoroos. The capital is governed by a city council (the Citizen's Representatives Hural) with forty members, elected every four years. The city council appoints the mayor. Ulan Bator is governed as an independent first-level subdivision of Mongolia, separate from Töv Aimag, the province that surrounds Ulan Bator.

Ulan Bator has five major universities: 


And a big library, The National Library of Mongolia.

Most important places in Ulaanbaatar:



"Choijin Lama Monastery" and "Gandantegchinlen Khiid Monastery" are two of the very few in Mongolia to escape the destruction of Mongolian monasteries under Khorloogiin Choibalsan.

Ulaanbaatar has several museums dedicated to Mongolian history and culture.


The official symbol of Ulan Bator is the , a mythical bird in both Buddhist and Hindu mythology called Khan Garuda or "Khangar'd" by Mongols.

The city’s flag is sky blue with the arms in the center.



</doc>
<doc id="23434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23434" title="Pyongyang">
Pyongyang

Pyŏngyang (평양 직할시 in hangul, 平壤直轄市 in hanja) is the capital and biggest city in the Asian country North Korea. The government does not want people to know anything so Pyongyang is one of the few places in North Korea that foreigners (outside people) can travel (go) to.

The population of Pyongyang is 3,255,388.


</doc>
<doc id="23439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23439" title="IBM">
IBM

International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) is a company from the United States that makes and sells software, computer hardware, infrastructure services, and consulting services. IBM is one of the biggest Information Technology companies in the world. IBM has had the most patents of any technology company for many years, and has made many important inventions and discoveries that have improved computers.

IBM began in 1911, it was called the "Computer Tabulating Recording Company. It was set up by a man named Charles Flint. There were no computers at that time, so IBM made other machines, such as typewriters. In 1924, the company changed its name to International Business Machines (IBM). In 1937, the company's Tabulating Machines were used by the United States government to record information about Americans, so they could make a new law called the Social Security Act.

During World War II, IBM made guns for the American army. During the 1960s, IBM computers were used for American space exploration. From the 1980s until 2005, IBM made personal computers. In 2005, IBM sold their personal computer manufacturing to a Chinese company called Lenovo. Today, IBM mostly makes software, and some powerful supercomputers.


</doc>
<doc id="23441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23441" title="Mary (mother of Jesus)">
Mary (mother of Jesus)

In Christianity, Mary (Judeo-Aramaic מרים Maryām "Bitter"; Arabic مريم (Maryam); Septuagint Greek Μαριαμ, Mariam, Μαρια, Maria; Syriac: Mart Maryam) was the mother of Jesus. Her story is told in the New Testament of the Bible. 

Christian beliefs about Mary are based on the Bible. In the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke, it says that Mary was a young woman who was engaged to be married to a man called Joseph. The Gospel of Luke says that an angel came to Mary to tell her that she would give birth to a Son and she should call him Jesus and that he would save people from their sins.

Mary said "How can this happen? I am a virgin!" 
The angel said "With God, anything can happen!"

When Joseph found out that Mary was pregnant, he thought about what he should do. If he married her, he would be unclean. He decided to privately break the engagement. But then he had a dream. An angel told him that the baby was "the Son of God". 

At this time, the Roman Emperor, Caesar Augustus, made a law that everyone in the Roman Empire must pay tax. Everyone had to go back to the town that their family came from, to have their name put on the tax lists. Joseph came from Bethlehem, which was called "The City of David". Joseph took Mary to Bethlehem and she gave birth to the baby, Jesus, in an animal shed, because there was no room for them. 

The Bible tells that thirty-three years later Jesus was killed by crucifixion. Although many of Jesus' friends were frightened and ran away, Mary stood by the cross and was with Jesus when he died. As he was dying, he asked a young disciple to care for Mary as if she was his own Mother, and the disciple took her back to his home. On the third day, as it says in the Bible, Mary went with other women to the grave where Jesus had been laid, to wash his body with oil. An angel told the women that Jesus was not there. The angel said "He is risen."

Mary is so important they even wrote a prayer for her! It is very amazing how much this beautiful mother, did many interesting things!

Mary is given honor in the Christian faith, particularly in the Roman Catholic Church and the Lutheran Church as "the Mother of God" and Eastern Orthodox Church as "God bearer". (Jesus is believed to be God and man.) Mary is also given honour by Muslims because the Quran says that she was a virgin when she gave birth to her son, Jesus, who is given honour by Muslims as a great prophet. 

Mary is often called by Roman Catholics and Lutherans the "Blessed Virgin Mary". There are many feast days which honour the Virgin Mary, such as the "Nativity of the Blessed Virgin" on 8 September which remembers her birth.

The Virgin Mary is often shown in Christian art. Many paintings show Mary with the baby Jesus. These paintings are known as Madonna and Child pictures. 

Mary is often honored with the words "Hail Mary, you are full of God's Grace! The Lord is with you. Blessed are you above other women and blessed is the child from your womb, Jesus!"

Protestants (excluding Lutherans), believe Roman Catholics give Mary too much honor.



</doc>
<doc id="23443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23443" title="Quake">
Quake

Quake is a violent first-person shooter computer game that was released by id Software on July 22, 1996. It was the first game in the popular "Quake" series of computer and video games.

"Quake" is about killing demons and zombies, but also has multiplayer deathmatch. It is very much like the video game Doom that id Software made before Quake.

There are 8 weapons in "Quake."




</doc>
<doc id="23445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23445" title="Kunya">
Kunya

A kunya (Arabic:كنية) is a name which is honorably given to the mother or father an Arabic child. Kunya is pronounced koon-ya. A married person (especially ladies) are called by their kunya name, which is "abu" (father) or "umm" (mother) plus the name of their first son. Their whole name is their name plus their kunya. For example, "Umm Ja'far Aminah" is the mother of Ja'far. The kunya precedes the personal name.


</doc>
<doc id="23456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23456" title="Wake">
Wake

Wake could mean several things:


</doc>
<doc id="23458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23458" title="Zen">
Zen

Zen is a name for Mahāyāna Buddhist schools. Zen is a form of Buddhism that uses meditation to try to get enlightenment. The word "zen" is translated from the Chinese word Chán.

In the 20th century, mostly in the Western world, Zen started also being used to mean certain philosophies and art forms, such as rock gardens, paintings and tapestries.



</doc>
<doc id="23468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23468" title="Lowland Scots language">
Lowland Scots language

Lowland Scots, sometimes called simply "Scots" or sometimes "Lallans", is spoken in some parts of Scotland, mainly in the south and east, and Ulster in the north of Ireland. Some people consider Scots to be a language and some consider it to be a form of English. It should not be confused with the Scottish Gaelic language, which is a Celtic language. 

Scots differs from standard English in vocabulary and grammar, and it is not the same as English with a Scottish accent. Activists for Scots have pressured the government of the United Kingdom to recognise it as a regional language of the United Kingdom.

The most famous writer of literature in Lowland Scots is Robert Burns.


</doc>
<doc id="23469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23469" title="Scottish English">
Scottish English

Scottish English is the form of the English language spoken in Scotland. It can include Lowland Scots, but some people think they are very separate.


</doc>
<doc id="23470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23470" title="Mathematical analysis">
Mathematical analysis

Mathematical analysis is a part of mathematics. It is often shortened to analysis. It looks at functions, sequences and series. These have useful properties and characteristics that can be used in engineering. The mathematical analysis is about continuous functions, differential calculus and integration.

Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Isaac Newton developed most of the basis of mathematical analysis.

An example for mathematical analysis is limits. Limits are used to see what happens very close to things. Limits can also be used to see what happens when things get very big. For example, formula_1 is never zero, but as n gets bigger formula_1 gets close to zero. The limit of formula_1 as n gets bigger is zero. It is usually said "The limit of formula_1 as n goes to infinity is zero". It is written as formula_5.

The counterpart would be formula_6. When the formula_7 gets bigger, the limit goes to infinity. It is written as formula_8.

The fundamental theorem of algebra can be proven from some basic results in complex analysis. It says that every polynomial formula_9 with real or complex coefficients has a complex root. A root is a number "x" which gives a solution formula_10. Some of these roots may be the same.

The function formula_11 is a line. The formula_12 shows the slope of the function and the formula_13 the position of the function on the ordinate. With two points on the line, it is possible to calculate the slope formula_12 with:

formula_15.

A function of the form formula_16, which is not linear, cannot be calculated like above. It is only possible to calculate the slope by using tangents and secants. The secant passes through two points and when the two points get closer, it turns into a tangent.

The new formula is formula_17.

This is called difference quotient. The formula_18 gets now closer to formula_19. This can be expressed with the following formula:

formula_20.

The result is called derivative or slope of f at the point formula_21.

The integration is about the calculation of areas.

The symbol formula_22

is read as "the integral of f, from a to b" and refers to the area between the x-axis, the graph of funtion f, and the lines x=a and x=b. The formula_23 is the point where the area should start and the formula_24 where the area ends.

Some topics in analysis are:

Some useful ideas in analysis are:


</doc>
<doc id="23472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23472" title="Locust">
Locust

Locust is a kind of grasshopper which forms swarms. Such swarms are usually made of a great number of locusts. They do a lot of damage to the places where they pass, by eating the crops.

Locusts are an edible insect and are considered a delicacy in some countries.

In the Bible, locust swarms are described as a plague.
More detailed information on locusts can be found at the pages of the Australian Plague Locust Commission.


</doc>
<doc id="23473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23473" title="Grasshopper">
Grasshopper

A grasshopper is an insect. It is an herbivore (feeds on plants). Grasshoppers that form large swarms they are called locusts. They are part of the order of Orthoptera. Some people eat grasshoppers. 



</doc>
<doc id="23474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23474" title="Olive oil">
Olive oil

Olive oil is a vegetable oil. It is made by getting the juice of the fruits of the olive tree. These are called olives. The oil is used in cooking, as well as cosmetics , traditional medicine, and as a fuel for oil lamps.

People see it as a healthy addition to their diet because of the high level of unsaturated fats (mainly oleic acid) and polyphenols.

At more than one-third of the world's olive trees, Spain is the top producer of olive oil in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="23476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23476" title="Oil lamp">
Oil lamp

An oil lamp is a lamp used for lighting. Usually, it produces a flame by burning olive oil, or other vegetable oil. The designs were usually made of potterry or metallic lamps. This design might remind someone that by cleaning (rubbing the lamp) a Genie might appear, and grant some wishes (as he did in the tale of Aladdin in the 1001 Nights)

Today, those lamps have mostly been replaced by kerosene lamps.
You can also try oilve oil canola oil and others.



</doc>
<doc id="23479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23479" title="Conjugation">
Conjugation

Conjugations are forms of verbs that are changed to agree with the subject that is doing the action described by the verb. Usually most of the word stays the same, but the endings change. Most conjugation systems follow some sort of pattern within the language.

Example: French verb for 'to eat'- "manger" (stem: mang)
("manger" is the Infinitive of the verb. The infinitive is the un-conjugated form of the verb, literally the "to do" something form such as "to" walk, "to" play, "to" eat. In English one does not say "I like eat" one must say "I like "to" eat". In both English and French ("J'aime "manger"") the infinitive form of the verb would be used in this case.
The pattern here is that the "er" is removed from the verb and replaced with a different ending depending on the subject(who's doing the eating). This pattern is good for many french conjugations, but not all, and in other languages, conjugation patterns are going to be very different.



</doc>
<doc id="23481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23481" title="Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk">
Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk

Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk (7 March 1850 - 14 September 1937) was the first president of Czechoslovakia. He led the country between years 1918 and 1935.
He was scientist, philosopher, pedagog, politician, and journalist.
He studied in Brno, Vienna, and Leipzig, and he spoke many languages (Latin, French, Polish, German and English)
He worked as a teacher at a university in Prague and Vienna.
He was a big persona with huge charisma and he is called "President liberator" and "Daddy Masaryk".

Edvard Beneš was the next president after him.


</doc>
<doc id="23483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23483" title="Arachne">
Arachne

Arachne is a character from Greek mythology. 

She was the daughter of Idmon of Colohpon, in Lydia (Greece). Her father earned his living with dyeing (coloring) cloth. She learnt to be a weaver. A weaver makes cloth, or textiles, from single strings. She was good at what she did, so she once claimed that her skill was better than that of Athena. Athena is the young Greek goddess of weaving (amongst other things). 

Athena was of course mad at her. So she appeared to the girl as an old woman, and warned her not to offend the gods. Arachne did not take the advice, she wanted a weaving contest to prove her skill. 

Athena revealed herself, and let the contest begin. Athena wove her scene were she won over Poseidon, the god of the sea. Arachne wove scenes about Zeus being unfaithful, with different women: Leda, Europa, and Danae.

Athena also saw Arachnes work as without error, but she did not like the subject of Arachne's weaving. Athena lost her temper, and destroyed what Arachne had created. She also hit Arachne on the head. Arachne then realized what she had done. She ran away and hanged herself. Athena however had pity with Arachne, so before Arachne had died, she changed the rope into a cobweb, and Arachne into a spider. 

Ovid tells the story in "Metamorphoses". Book 6, 5-54, 129-145. The story probably indicates the superiority of Asia over Greece in the textile arts. 

The Greek word for spider is "arachne" (αραχνη), from which derive the mythological woman's name, the class name Arachnida in biology, and the name for fear of spiders, arachnophobia.



</doc>
<doc id="23484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23484" title="Arachnophobia">
Arachnophobia

Arachnophobia is a fear of spiders. It is a very common phobia - many people suffer from it. People who have it often feel uncomfortable in areas where there may be spiders.


</doc>
<doc id="23485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23485" title="Phobia">
Phobia

A phobia is a strong fear of something. Such fears can be very common. Those who suffer, usually very strongly want to avoid (keep away from) what they fear. People with arachnophobia, for example, are scared of spiders, and want to keep away from the places where they might find spiders.

A Phobia is different from normal fear in many ways:

It is hard to tell how many people suffer from phobias; numbers indicate though that between 5 and 13 percent seem to have a phobia. Women suffer from phobias about twice as often.

There are different ways to help people with phobias. There is treatment available; it focuses on making the patient less sensitive to the fear they suffer from, or showing him or her how the cycle of fear works. There is also medication available (mostly sedatives) that help people cope. Finally there are self-help groups.
It is said to originate from a Greek god FOBO.


</doc>
<doc id="23486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23486" title="John le Carré">
John le Carré

John le Carré (born 19 October 1931 in Poole, Dorset, England) is the writer of many spy novels. The name is a pseudonym. His real name is David John Moore Cornwell.



</doc>
<doc id="23491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23491" title="Sexually transmitted disease">
Sexually transmitted disease

A sexually transmitted disease is a disease which generally spreads by sexual intercourse, including oral sex or anal sex. "Sexually transmitted disease" is usually written as STD for short. STDs can also be called sexually transmitted infections (STIs), or venereal diseases (VD). It is more accurate to call sexually transmitted diseases sexually transmissible diseases. This is because some of them spread in other ways, too (see section on HIV below for example).

There are two ways that sex can send a disease from one person to another person:

Additionally, there is currently no form of protection against certain STDs, like herpes (a painful virus that causes growths in the groin or mouth for the rest of one's life, with no known cure), or pubic lice. It is important to know the health risks of having sex as well as the emotional bonuses, and most of all to talk to one's partner.

In some countries, up to one out of every four teenage girls might have an STD.







</doc>
<doc id="23525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23525" title="Category:181 births">
Category:181 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 181.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="23526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23526" title="Category:181">
Category:181


</doc>
<doc id="23537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23537" title="Atacama Desert">
Atacama Desert

The Atacama Desert is a desert. It is on the Tropic of Capricorn in Chile, and is one of the driest places on earth. In some places less than an inch of rain falls every ten years. Only one of the rivers from the Andes mountains reaches the ocean through the desert. The rest disappear into the dry soil. The Atacama is a desert not because mountains block moisture from reaching it, but because the ocean does. The water on the west part of Chile is quite cold, because it came from Antarctica. Moisture cannot stay in the cold air above the cold water, so mainly fog reaches the land, but very little rain. The people of Chile have learned how to get water from the fog to help them live. They "harvest" the clouds by putting up plastic sheets with pans underneath. The fog collects on the plastic and drips into the pans, giving the people water for crops and drinking. This desert has not rained in parts of it for over 400 years. Even though the Atacama is the driest place in the world that does not mean it is the hottest. The Atacama Desert is actually a really cold place with temperatures ranging from 0 to 30 degrees.


</doc>
<doc id="23551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23551" title="International Atomic Energy Agency">
International Atomic Energy Agency

International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is a spin-off organisation from the United Nations. It was created as an autonomous (self-governing) organization on July 29, 1957. The organization is intended to monitor and promote the peaceful and safe use of nuclear energy with protection from harmful radiation and, also, to prevent the use of this energy to build nuclear weapons.

International Atomic Energy Agency and its Director General, Mohamed ElBaradei, were both awarded the Nobel Peace Prize on 7 October 2005 for their role in trying to prevent the invasion of Iraq by a US-led coalition of troops.

The IAEA has its headquarters in Vienna, Austria. Additional facilities are located in Seibersdorf (near Vienna), Monaco, Toronto, and Tokyo.


</doc>
<doc id="23553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23553" title="1080">
1080


</doc>
<doc id="23554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23554" title="Roger Ebert">
Roger Ebert

Roger Joseph Ebert (born June 18, 1942 in Urbana, Illinois) is an American movie critic. Ebert's reviews appear in newspapers and he is the co-host of the television show "Ebert and Roeper" (originally "Siskel and Ebert"), where he and another critic, originally Gene Siskel (1946-1999) and after Siskel's death, Richard Roeper, appear in and talk about new movies.

His name stayed in the title, but Ebert did not appear on the show after mid-2006, because of problems after surgery for thyroid cancer which left him unable to speak.

Ebert ended his association with the show in July 2008, but in February 2009 he said that he and Roeper would continue their work on a new show. Ebert's current show, "Ebert Presents at the Movies", premiered on January 21, 2011, with Ebert appearing in a brief segment called "Roger's Office".

In 1975 Ebert became the first person to win a Pulitzer Prize for Criticism


</doc>
<doc id="23555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23555" title="Seibersdorf">
Seibersdorf

Seibersdorf is a village in Lower Austria, Austria. As of 2001, about 1200 people lived there. It is close to Vienna, and mostly known for the research centre of the International Atomic Energy Agency. 



</doc>
<doc id="23558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23558" title="Russian Revolution">
Russian Revolution

The term Russian Revolution refers mostly to the Russian Revolution of 1917, which included the February Revolution that made Czar Nicholas II step down, and the later Bolshevik revolt of Communism, the October Revolution, that had the royal family shot and killed.

During the 1890s, improvements in Russian industry put more jobs in cities. This made the cities larger as people moved there. The workers in the cities began to create political parties in order to try and change the horrible conditions that they lived and worked in. Poor people from other parts of the Russian Empire, like Poland and the Ukraine, also created their own parties to try and stop the Russians oppressing them.

In 1905, Russia lost a war with Japan. This added to the people's anger, and after a peaceful protest of workers was shot at by the Emperor's guards, a rebellion began. It did not really change anything, but it meant that Nicholas promised to create an elected Parliament, or Duma.

The Duma was elected for the first time in March 1906. However, there were both left-wing and right-wing opponents to it, including socialists and people who were very loyal to the Emperor. There were also arguments over whether or not to take power from the Emperor and give it to more ordinary people. Nicholas eventually stopped the Duma three times, and because that meant they could not say anything against Nicholas, people became angry.

In 1914, Russia joined World War I. At first, people thought this was a good decision, and the country was united by patriotism. But there were huge problems with supplies, and by 1915 many soldiers were being sent to fight without any guns. Communication was bad, and Army officers argued a lot, which meant that they did not make plans well. The soldiers became unhappy, and over 3,000,000 Russians died.

In 1915, the Emperor took personal control of the Russian Army, and moved to the Army headquarters. This was a mistake. Not only did he not improve the situation, he began to be blamed for it. The fact that he was not near the government also meant that his wife Queen Alexandra was left in charge. Whenever the Duma tried to warn him that the people were angry, she would say they were lying, so he would ignore them. He even ignored a report by his secret police, the Okhrana, which said that a revolution might happen if things did not get better for ordinary people.

The first revolution began with a series of strikes in early February, 1917. People in food queues in St. Petersburg, the capital of Russia, began a demonstration. They were joined by thousands of women, who left the fabric factories where they worked. The strike spread through the capital, and by February 25th most of St. Petersburg's factories had had to close.

On the evening of the 25th, Nicholas II sent the chief of the army in St. Petersburg a telegram, telling him to use his soldiers to stop the strikes. The army chief did that, but the soldiers joined the workers instead of stopping them. The police also joined them, and the government's power collapsed.

On March 13th, Nicholas abdicated (gave up his throne) and control of Russia was given to a Provisional (temporary) Government.

After the February Revolution, the Provisional Government was challenged by a large group of workers in St. Petersburg- the Petrograd Soviet. While the Government's leader, Alexander Kerensky, tried to improve things by allowing freedom of speech and letting political prisoners go, there was growing discontent. The lack of food became worse, wages went down and the national debt grew to 10 million roubles.

Vladimir Lenin arrived in St. Petersburg in April 1917. He was a Communist and had been exiled to Switzerland by the Emperor, but the Provisional Government had allowed him to come back. He began to lead a Communist group called the Bolsheviks.

In July, the Bolsheviks spent four days demonstrating against the Government. The military attacked them, and Lenin was forced to escape to Finland until August, when the Bolsheviks were asked to help defend the government against a takeover by the army. The result of this was that their reputation improved, and they were given weapons by the Government.

The Provisional Government's reputation kept getting worse as time went on, while the Bolsheviks' reputation got better because they refused to work with them again.

On October 10th, the Bolshevik's Central Committee voted to start a revolution. One began in Estonia on October 23rd, and another started in St. Petersburg two days later. This time the revolution was mostly peaceful, and the Bolsheviks' Red Army took over many government buildings without a fight- only two people were killed in total. It ended with the takeover of the Emperor's old Winter Palace on the morning of the 26th, when the Provisional Government was arrested.

The Soviets took power and formed a Congress (a new Government) which began on the 25th October. Some members who were not Bolsheviks walked out during its first few meetings, but this made little difference to its decisions. The people who left were even taunted by Leon Trotsky on their way out; he told them to go "where you belong... the dustbin of history!" All parties who opposed the Bolsheviks were eventually broken up, and their leaders were arrested.

The Congress then began to get rid of private property. This meant that all land and money was to be owned by the people, and control of factories was given to their workers.

Several countries that had been in the Russian Empire before the Revolution, such as Estonia and the Ukraine, had been asking for independence since February. As the new government formed they declared independence, and were allowed it.

In Russia, the revolution was severely challenged by countries that were not Communist and the invading White Armies. In July 1918, countries such as America, the United Kingdom and France sent more than 15 armies to fight the Bolsheviks. The ex-Emperor and his family were shot to stop them from being freed by the White Armies, and in order to win the war, Lenin began a scheme to divert food and supplies to the Communist Army. The plan worked and the Bolsheviks won the war, but the lack of food meant that between 3 and 10 million people died of hunger.

Some European countries recognised the Soviet Union as a proper country in the early 1920s, while America refused to until 1933.

The term "Red October" has also been used to describe the events of the month.

The term "Russian Revolution" can also mean the Russian Revolution of 1905.

When talking about time, if the comment does not say the year, the term usually refers to the October Revolution of 1917. If someone is talking about the 1905 Revolution, they will say the year, and if it's the February Revolution, they will say the month.

The Third Russian Revolution was an Anarchist revolution against the Bolsheviks and the White Army that lasted from 1918 to 1922.


</doc>
<doc id="23560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23560" title="Baguette">
Baguette

Baguettes are long thin loaves of bread popular in France, and other French-speaking countries.
Baguettes are common in Europe. Usually, they are made of white bread. Baguettes usually have a hard crust on the outside but soft white bread on the inside.

French traditions say that bread may only contain the following four things: flour, water, yeast and salt. Anything containing more than those things must not be called bread.

A baguette is about 5-6 cm wide, 3 to 4 cm high, and about 65 cm long. Such a baguette usually weighs about 250 grams. It is common to dip the bread into olive oil when it is eaten. 

The baguette is thought as to have come from France, but it actually came from Vienna. In the middle of the nineteenth century, steam ovens had just been brought into use. This allowed loaves to be made with a crispy crust and the white centre, similar to today's baguettes. But at that time, in 1920, a law was passed that did not let bakers work before 4am. This made it impossible to make the loaf in time for their customers' breakfasts. The longer, thinner baguette helped solve this problem because it could be prepared and baked much faster.

Outside France, the baguette is also called a 'french stick'. It is a loaf of bread, up to a metre long but only about four to five centimetres in diameter. The baguette is a symbol of France.

Baguettes are eaten as a sandwich cut in half. They are also eaten for breakfast (usually with jam or chocolate spread).

A loaf the same length as a baguette but thicker (about 8-10 centimetres diameter) is known as 'pain'. A thin version of the baguette is called 'ficelle'. In restaurants, the thick one is more served than the other kind.

Even within France there is a difference between a traditional baguette and a 'supermarket' baguette.


</doc>
<doc id="23562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23562" title="Barometer">
Barometer

Barometer is an instrument used to measure air pressure. The "barometer" measures air pressure in units called hectopascals (hPa). Air pressure and differences in pressure are important ways to describe or measure weather. Therefore the barometer is important for meteorologists. 

There are various types of "barometers" such as the water barometer, aneroid barometer, and the mercury barometer. They were created by an Italian mathematician named Evangelista Torricelli in 1643. They were also used for measuring altitude, or height above the ground, such as the height of a mountain, and they were often used to measure altitude aboard a hot air balloon. They were also used by miners in caves to determine the depth of a mine. The most used purpose of the barometer was measuring air pressure. The barometer is a good tool for predicting weather.


</doc>
<doc id="23572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23572" title="Nokia">
Nokia

Nokia Corporation is a company that makes mobile phones. Its main office is in Espoo, Finland. Nokia is the biggest and most important Finnish company. Nokia is the world's biggest mobile industry.

The company began in 1865 as a wood pulp mill in Finland and began making paper. The paper was sold to Russia, the United Kingdom, and France. The company merged with the Finnish Rubber Company which wanted to use its hydroelectricity plant. After World War Two, Nokia bought a large part of the Finnish Cable Works. In 1967 the three companies joined to form the Nokia Group.


</doc>
<doc id="23574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23574" title="Research">
Research

Research is the process of finding facts. These facts will lead to knowledge. Research is done by using what is already known (if any). Additional knowledge can be obtained by proving (or falsifying) existing theories and by trying to better explain observations. Research process, both analytical and experimental, should be systematic, organized and objective.

Students do research by participating in the field or laboratory experiments, reading relevant books or internet information about a subject, taking notes and making conclusions. 

The Scientific method is a common way of doing this kind of research which is meant to improve understanding of Biology, Engineering, Physics, Chemistry and of many other fields. As a result, scientific research makes possible to discover new medicines, to build automobiles safer, and to provide healthy food. Money for research comes from governments, private corporations, and charities.

Any research should be:





</doc>
<doc id="23583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23583" title="E3">
E3

The Electronic Entertainment Expo (Exposition) or E3 is one of the biggest conferences for video games in the world. Every year in May, (but in 2011 June 7-9), game developers and other professional people gather to show off new video games, computer hardware, and features. It is only open to people who have been invited and people visiting must be over eighteen years old.



</doc>
<doc id="23589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23589" title="Prince Edward Island">
Prince Edward Island

Prince Edward Island (or Île-du-Prince-Édouard in French) is a province in Canada. It is the smallest of Canada's ten provinces. Most of the people on Prince Edward Island speak English. Prince Edward Island was named for the son of King George lll of Britain. This province is 224km (139 miles) long and 4 to 60 kilometers (2.5 to 37 miles). The capital, and also the largest city is Charlottetown.

Prince Edward Island joined Canada in 1873.

Prince Edward Island is known for being the location for novels written by Lucy Maud Montgomery including "Anne of Green Gables".


</doc>
<doc id="23591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23591" title="Antigen">
Antigen

An antigen is a protein expressed by a bacteria or virus that is recognized by the immune system as foreign which can stimulate the production of antibodies and combine specifically with them. 

Usually an antibody is a molecule, perhaps on the cell surface of a bacterium or virus.

Antibodies are always 'foreign'; except in rare cases the system is tolerant of its own molecules. Autoimmune diseases are caused when this safeguard fails.

When an antigen is introduced into the body it causes the production of antibodies. Antigens include bacteria, cells of transplanted organs, plant pollen and toxins. 

Antigens "stimulate" the production of antibodies: they do not produce them directly.

The first time that a new antigen comes into contact with the body the response of the immune system will be a complete immune response. During this first response, the antigen will cause antibodies to be made. 

The next time the same antigen contacts the body, a full scale immune response is not needed as the body already has a specific antibody available instantly for that antigen. 

This means that the body can begin fighting an infection much sooner for illnesses it has encountered before, and takes more time to begin to fight an infection in new illnesses. 


</doc>
<doc id="23592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23592" title="Chaos">
Chaos

Chaos is when something , or random happens. It is from the Indo-European root "" which means "to be wide open" or in other words, a very large space. Chaos was also one of the Greek gods, who filled the gap between Heaven and Earth. Because early Christians did not understand how to use the word "chaos" properly, the word's meaning changed to "" or random and not normal. It is the opposite of "".


</doc>
<doc id="23593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23593" title="Information entropy">
Information entropy

Information Entropy is a concept from information theory. It tells how much information there is in an event. In general, the more uncertain or random the event is, the more information it will contain. The concept of information entropy was created by a mathematician. He was named Claude Elwood Shannon.

Let's look at an example. If someone is told something they already know, the information they get is very small. It will be pointless for them to be told something they already know. This information would have very low entropy.

If they were told about something they knew little about, they would get much new information. This information would be very valuable to them. They would learn something. This information would have high entropy.




</doc>
<doc id="23597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597" title="Spice Girls">
Spice Girls

The Spice Girls were a pop girl group formed in 1994. Their hits include "Wannabe", "Spice Up Your Life" and "Stop".

The members of the group were: Victoria Beckham ("Posh Spice"), Melanie Brown ("Scary Spice"), Emma Bunton ("Baby Spice"), Melanie Chisholm ("Sporty Spice") and Geri Halliwell ("Ginger Spice").

The group released three albums: Spice in 1996, Spice World in 1997 and Forever in 2000. The Spice Girls starred in , which was released in December 1997. 

The five girls reunited in 2007 and announced a world tour which started in December. A Greatest Hits album was released. 

On 1 February 2008, the group said that the tour would end early, disappointing some fans.


</doc>
<doc id="23598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23598" title="Traffic cone">
Traffic cone

Traffic cones (also called road cones, safety cones, or pylons) are cone-shaped markers, generally made out of plastic, that are placed on roads to temporarily redirect automobile traffic in a safe manner. 

Traffic cones are often placed around construction sites or roadside accidents. As well, many utility companies such as telephone companies and electric companies place cones on the road when utility workers are working on or near the road. Cones are also used by driving schools to set up tests of turning and parking skills.
They have many other uses including bike training, fun and for personal use like reserving parking spaces.

Traffic cones are easily movable and about 60 cm (24 inches) tall. Traffic cones come in many different colors, with orange, yellow and red being the most common colors. Many types of traffic cones have reflective strips or stripes of reflective paint, so that the cones are easier to see at night.

Traffic cones were invented in 1914 by Charles P. Rudabaker. The first cones were made of concrete. In the 2000s, most cones are made of brightly-colored plastic.



</doc>
<doc id="23605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23605" title="Category:1976 births">
Category:1976 births


</doc>
<doc id="23606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23606" title="Category:1976 deaths">
Category:1976 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="23607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23607" title="Agatha Christie">
Agatha Christie

Agatha Christie (15 September 1890 – 12 January 1976) was an English writer of crime stories. 

She was born in Torquay and was married twice; she had one child called Rosalind Hicks. 

Agatha Christie worked in a hospital and in a pharmacy in World War I. 

Her books are very famous all over the world, and she sold a lot of books. Her stories are about murders and finding out who did them. The most well-known characters in her books are Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot. Miss Marple is an old lady, and she talks to everyone. She uses logic to find out who is guilty of the murder. Hercule Poirot is a private detective from Belgium who lives in London. He likes to find out who did the murder by thinking about all the evidence.

She also wrote romance novels and theatre plays. They were very successful too.

In 1971, she was honoured by the Queen with the title Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire.


</doc>
<doc id="23623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23623" title="Motion">
Motion

Motion could mean:


Astronomy




Cinematography



</doc>
<doc id="23627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23627" title="MB">
MB

MB, Mb, mB or mb may mean:

MB may mean:

Mb may mean:

mb may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="23628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23628" title="Kwame Nkrumah">
Kwame Nkrumah

Dr. Kwame Nkrumah (born Francis Nwia-Kofi Ngonloma, September 21, 1909 – April 27, 1972) was an African political leader. He was well known for being the first Prime Minister (later President) of Ghana, and his vision for a united African continent. On March 6, 1957, after ten years of campaigning for Ghanaian independence, Nkrumah was elected and Ghana gained independence from British rule. 

Nkrumah was born Francis Nwia-Kofi Ngonloma in Nkroful, a town in Gold Coast (the British colony that was to become Gold Coast) to Kofi Ngonloma, a goldsmith, and Elizabeth Nyaniba, a salesperson, who he saw as a great inspiration.

Nkrumah was first named Francis Nwia-Kofi, but later changed his name to Kwame Nkrumah in 1945 in the UK. He was born on Saturday. 

He attended Elementary School at Half Assini where his father worked as a goldsmith. A German Roman Catholic priest called George Fischer significantly influenced his elementary school education. 


The Osagyefo, Dr. Kwame Nkrumah authored over 20 books and publications. (See a list of his publications) and he is a lead authority on the Political theory and Practical Pan-Africanism.


</doc>
<doc id="23630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23630" title="Diego Velázquez">
Diego Velázquez

Diego Velázquez (June 1599 – 6 August 1660) was a Spanish painter, the leading artist in the court of King Philip IV.

Diego Velázquez had a hard life. He got married when he was eighteen. With his wife, he had two daughters. He died at the age of 61 after having painted many paintings, including the famous Las Meninas.


</doc>
<doc id="23632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23632" title="Kinshasa">
Kinshasa

Kinshasa is the capital city of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (once called Zaire). It is the third largest city in the continent of Africa (after Lagos and Cairo). Seven and a half million people live there. Kinshasa is also a province in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The city of Kinshasa is located in it.

Henry Morton Stanley founded (started) the town in 1881 and called it Léopoldville (after King Léopold II of Belgium), next to a village called Nshasa or Kinshasa. The city of Léopoldville changed its name to Kinshasa in 1966.

Kinshasa is on one side of the Congo river, and Brazzaville, the capital of the Republic of Congo, is on the other side. Kinshasa and Brazzaville are the nearest country capitals in the world.

Henry Morton Stanley founded (started) the town in 1881 and called it Léopoldville (after King Léopold II of Belgium, who controlled the large territory that is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo), next to a village called Nshasa or Kinshasa. The city was originally private property (not public). The city of Léopoldville changed its name to Kinshasa in 1966. The post developed successfully as the first navigable port on the Congo River above Livingstone Falls, a series of rapids over 300 kilometres (190 mi) below Leopoldville. At first, all goods arriving by sea or being sent by sea had to be carried by porters between Léopoldville and Matad.


</doc>
<doc id="23635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23635" title="Great Barrier Reef">
Great Barrier Reef

The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef. It is close to the coast of Queensland, Australia. It is 2,300 km long. It is made up of nearly 3000 coral reefs and over 600 islands. It has been listed an important World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The Great Barrier Reef is the largest structure made by living things. It can be seen from outer space.

James Cook discovered the reef by accident on 11 June 1770, when his ship, the "Endeavour", crashed into it. The coral ripped a large hole in the bottom of his ship. Cook and the crew were able to keep the ship from sinking. They were able to get the ship onto a beach at what is now called Cooktown. His crew took seven weeks to repair the ship and continue the voyage.

The Reef Research Centre has found the remains of coral that are half a million years old. Corals have been growing in the region for as long as 25 million years. The corals have not always formed coral reefs.

It is difficult to work out the age of the Great Barrier Reef. This is because of the way a reef can grow and shrink as the sea level changes. A coral reef can grow in diameter, that is how wide they are, from 1 to 2 cm per year. They can also grow upwards from 1 to 15 cm per year. Coral can not grow if the water is too deep (150 metres or more) because it needs light from the sun. They cannot grow out of the water (above sea level).

The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and Australian Institute of Marine Science say the current, living reef started growing about 20,000 years ago. It started to grow on an older reef. This makes the beginning of the reef during the Last Glacial Maximum. At that time, the sea level was 120 metres lower than it is today. The land that forms the bottom of the Great Barrier Reef was a coastal plain. The plain had some large hills. Some of these hills were parts of older reefs.
From 20,000 years ago until 6,000 years the sea level began to rise. As it rose, the corals could grow higher on the hills of the coastal plain. By 13,000 years ago the sea level was 60 metres lower than the present day. Corals began to grow around the hills of the coastal plain. These became continental islands. As the sea level rose higher, most of these continental islands were covered by water. The corals could then grow over the hills. This formed the present cays and reefs. Sea level on the Great Barrier Reef has not risen much in the last 6,000 years. The CRC Reef Research Centre has worked out that the present, living reef is 6,000 to 8,000 years old.

The remains of a very old barrier reef has been found in the Kimberley area. This is in the northern part of Western Australia.

The Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area has been divided into 70 different areas. These are called bioregions. Each bioregion has its own special plants and animals. There are 30 reef bioregions, and 40 are non-reef bioregions. In the northern part of the Great Barrier Reef, there are ribbon reefs and deltaic reefs. These kinds of reef do not exist in the rest of the Great Barrier Reef system.

The Great Barrier Reef has 14000 different plants and animals. This includes many vulnerable or endangered species. Some of these exist only on this reef system.
Thirty species of whales, dolphins, and porpoises have been seen in the Great Barrier Reef. This includes the dwarf minke whale, Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin, and the humpback whale. Most of the population of the dugongs live there.

Six species of sea turtles come to the reef to breed. These are the green sea turtle, leatherback sea turtle, hawksbill turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, flatback turtle, and the olive ridley. There are two different groups of green sea turtles on the Great Barrier Reef. One group lives in the northern part of the reef and the other in the south. Fifteen species of seagrass attract the dugongs and turtles. They also provide a food and shelter for fish. The most common kinds of seagrasses are "Halophila" and "Halodule".

Saltwater Crocodiles live in mangrove and salt marshes on the coast near the reef. No crocodile nests have been found on the reef. The salt water crocodiles on the reef travel long distances. There are not many living around the reef. Around 125 species of shark, stingray, skates or chimera live on the reef. About 5,000 species of mollusc live on the reef. These include the giant clam, nudibranchs and cone snails. Forty-nine species of pipefish and nine species of seahorse have been found. Seven species of frogs live on the islands.

215 species of birds come to the reef or nest or roost on the islands. This includes 22 species of seabirds and 32 species of shorebirds. These include the white-bellied sea eagle and roseate tern. Most nesting sites are on islands in the northern and southern regions of the Great Barrier Reef. About 1.7 million birds use the sites to breed.

The islands of the Great Barrier Reef also have 2,195 known plant species. Three of these do not live anywhere else. The northern islands have 300-350 plants which are woody. The southern islands have 200 plants which are herbaceous. The Whitsunday region has the most (1,141) plant speciess. The plant species are spread by birds.

Seventeen types of sea snake live on the Great Barrier Reef. They take about 4 years to become old enough to breed. They usually live on the sea floor. They live in warm waters up to deep. They are more common in the southern part of the reef.

More than 1,500 species of fish live on the reef. These include the clownfish, red bass, red-throat emperor, and several types of snapper and coral trout. There are at least 330 species of sea squirts (ascidians) on the reef. These vary in size from 1 mm-10 cm in diameter. Between 300-500 species of bryozoans live on the reef system. These are small water animals that look like moss, or branches.

Four hundred species of corals, both hard corals and soft corals live on the reef. Most of these spawn, releasing thousands of eggs, in huge events. This spawning is controlled by the rising sea temperatures. This happens in spring, summer and some parts of autumn, as part of the moons lunar cycle, and the day/night diurnal cycle. Reefs in the inner Great Barrier Reef spawn during the week after the full moon in October. Outer reefs spawn in November and December. The common soft corals on the Great Barrier Reef belong to 36 different types. Five hundred species of marine algae or seaweed live on the reef. This includes thirteen types of "Halimeda". These deposit chalky (calcareous) mounds up to 100 metres wide. They have mini-ecosystems on their surface which have been compared to rainforest cover.
<br clear=all>

A new report, the Reef Outlook Report, says that climate change will cause huge damage to the reef. The report was written by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. Warmer and more acidic water around the coral reef will slow down calcification, which is how the coral grows and becomes strong. The corals will become bleached (lose their colours) and many species that live on and around the reef will be in danger. The Australian government has already spent AU$325 million to improve the health of the reef in the last two years.

The Reef Outlook Report also warned of other dangers to the reef. These included poor quality water running into the sea from the mainland. This water is polluted with farm insecticides and rubbish from nearby towns. The increasing amount of development on the coast is destroying natural marine and coastal habitats. There is also some damage from fishing.



</doc>
<doc id="23641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23641" title="Missouri Compromise">
Missouri Compromise

The Missouri Compromise was an agreement passed in 1820 between the pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions in the United States Congress, involving primarily the regulation of slavery in the western territories. It prohibited slavery in the former Louisiana Territory north of the parallel 36°30' north except within the boundaries of the proposed state of Missouri. Prior to the agreement, the House of Representatives had refused to accept this compromise and a conference committee was appointed. The United States Senate refused to concur in the amendment,[clarification needed] and the whole measure was lost.

During the following session (1819-1820), the House passed a similar bill with an amendment, introduced on January 26, 1820 by John W. Taylor of New York, allowing Missouri into the union as a slave state. The question had been complicated by the admission in December of Alabama, a slave state, making the number of slave and free states equal. In addition, there was a bill in passage through the House (January 3, 1820) to admit Maine as a free state.

The Senate decided to connect the two measures. It passed a bill for the admission of Maine with an amendment enabling the people of Missouri to form a state constitution. Before the bill was returned to the House, a second amendment was adopted on the motion of Jesse B. Thomas of Illinois, excluding slavery from the Missouri Territory north of the parallel 36°30' north (the southern boundary of Missouri), except within the limits of the proposed state of Missouri.

The Missouri Compromise, also called the Compromise of 1820, was a plan proposed by Henry Clay of the U.S. state of Kentucky. The plan admitted Missouri as a slave state to please the South. Maine was admitted as a free state to please the North. It kept the balance of power in the United States Senate between the free states and slave states. The plan also called for slavery to be banned from the Louisiana Territory north of the parallel 36 degrees 30'(also known as the Missouri Compromise Line), Missouri's southern border. The plan was signed by former President Monroe and passed in 1820.


</doc>
<doc id="23642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23642" title="Peafowl">
Peafowl

A peafowl is a bird of the "Phasianidae" family. It is a relative of the pheasant. 

There are two species of Peafowl: the Asiatic peafowl ("Pavo") or the Congo Peafowl ("Afropavo"). The Congo peafowl is the only member of the pheasant family that originated outside Asia. 

The male Peafowl can have up to 150 brightly coloured feathers on its tail coverts. 

For centuries Peafowls have been admired for their beauty and hunted for their meat. Recently Peacocks have become more popular in parks and gardens.

The male peafowls (called peacocks) have long, colourful feathers. Female peafowls (called peahens) have shorter, brown feathers.

They like to eat any kind of green shoots (flowers, veggies, grass etc.) as well as wheat, cracked corn or wild game feed. They can handle freezing temperatures as long as they have a dry perch that is out of the wind and weather. Dry dog and cat chows make excellent winter feed for peafowl, who are omnivores, eating insects, small snakes, lizards, grain, as well as many varieties of greens. They are particularly fond of petunias and similar pot plants, leaving nothing but a small green circle where the stem once emerged from the soil. The birds will learn to come to a specific place at specific times of day to be fed, and a regular light feeding during summer adapts them to coming to the feeding place in winter.

The peafowl is native to southeast Asia including India, but they were brought to Europe long ago. They can acclimatize to colder areas. 

The very long, elegant and colorful plumage of the male birds, peacocks, is grown over the winter months so that they are ready for the early spring mating season, during which each male establishes a territory and calls the females to come admire his dance, a rustling of tail quills which hold up the fanned back plumes (= tail feathers) as he stamps and turns. The summoning call is loud, repeated, happens sometimes at night, and sounds, to some people, like a woman screaming. Often it is tri-syllabic, mi-fa-sol. Once the mating season is over, the tail feathers are naturally shed.

The peacock's display is a classic example of sexual selection.

The female birds, peahens, are soft brown and gray with white chests and bellies and some light green on the neck, the colors blending so well with weeds and grasses that when the female is nesting on the ground, she is almost invisible.

The hen teaches her chicks what to eat by putting her beak point down at a chosen bug, grain, seed, or leaf and making a throaty "grock" sound. The chick put its beak against the mother's, follows the beak to the tip, and eats whatever it points at. The chicks can learn what to eat from a hen of another species, but, unlike baby chickens, peachicks need to be shown what to eat. Chicks hatched in a hatchery can starve to death if there is no hen to teach them what to eat.

In addition to the "eat this" sound, the female has a particular call for a missing chick, a "where are you," "hoo-hah" call, two toned, high then low, mi-do, mi-do. When a chick is missing, this call can go on for hours.

She lays from two to six eggs in the spring time and, once all are laid, sits on the eggs for about thirty days to hatch them, leaving the nest once or twice a day to feed and drink. Often the female will utter a shrieked "trouble" call, a quickly repeated "cuk, cuk, cuk, cuk" when she leaves the nest, to attract predators away from it.

Once the chicks are hatched, the mother leads them away from the broken eggs, as the smell of the eggs attracts predators. They are able to flutter a little within hours, and in a few days can fly up into sheltering trees by going first to lower branches and working their way higher, preferring high, protected branches. The chicks roost on either side of the peahen, and she extends her wings to cover them during the night, thus protecting them from rain, hail, and visits from owls. They begin to grow their "crowns" when they are only a few weeks old and it takes about a year for them to reach full size, though it may take three years to reach breeding age. Both males and females are hatched with the same plumage; nine to twelve months after hatching, the males' necks begin to turn peacock blue, and their splendid plumage takes about four years to reach full size.


</doc>
<doc id="23643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23643" title="Manager">
Manager

A manager is a person who "manages" or is "in charge of" something. Managers can control departments in companies, or guide the people who work for them. Managers must often make decisions about things.

According to Henri Fayol , a French management theorist, managers must be able to do:


</doc>
<doc id="23644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23644" title="Grill">
Grill

Grill can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="23646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23646" title="Dachshund">
Dachshund

The dachshund is a breed of dog. It is usually short (small in height), but long from front to back and with short legs. “Dachshund” is a German word that is used in English, and it means “badger dog.” (In German, dachshunds are called "Dackel" or "Teckel".)

The breed was developed to use its sense of smell to find, chase, and hunt badgers and other animals that live in holes. A dachshund has a long, narrow body, so it is sometimes called a "wiener dog", "hot dog", or "sausage dog". Some people believe that using those words does not show respect.

Today, dachshunds have crooked legs, loose skin, and a barrel-like chest. Over time, breeders selected dogs so that those features would appear in puppies. That way, dachshunds could do a better job of burrowing into tight spaces. Another feature is a long tail.

The coat or fur of a dachshund comes in three kinds – smooth or short-haired, long-haired, and wire-haired. The wire-haired dachshund usually is shorter front to back than the other two. 
A fully-grown dachshund weighs between 16 and 28 lb. (7 to 12.7 kg), while the miniature dachshund may weigh less than 11 lb. (5 kg). The writer H. L. Mencken said that “A dachshund is a half-dog high and a dog-and-a-half long.”

Dachshund fur comes in many colours. The colors that are most common are red (a brown color that looks a little reddish) and black-and-tan (black body with brown parts). There are solid black and solid chocolate-brown dachshunds. Many people think those dachshunds are handsome, but the colors are not standard or official – that is, you cannot enter those dogs in some dog shows.

Dachshunds are playful, fun dogs. People know that dachshunds like to chase small animals and birds, and when they chase those animals they do it ferociously (without fear and very intensely). Many dachshunds are strong-headed or stubborn, and that means they can be hard to train. Dachshunds are often very loyal to their owners (devoted to their owners, or very interested in their owners). In fact, they can be much more loyal than other kinds of dogs. But wire-haired dachshunds often do not show that kind of loyalty to their owners.

People know that dachshunds have deep and tender eyes, and that dachshunds have many facial expressions (dachshunds can communicate just with the look on their faces).

Dachshunds often have spinal problems, that is, their backbone can become injured. That is because of the dog’s very long spinal column and short rib cage. The problems are usually hereditary (genetic), that is, they are passed down from parent dogs to puppies.

A dachshund that is obese (fat) can have a higher risk of getting injured. That is because the extra weight puts more strain on the backbone (vertebrae).
To prevent injury, dachshunds should not climb stairs or jump unless they really have to. It is also important to hold the dog the right way – by holding up the front and the rear parts of the body at all times.

Some people have wondered if dachshunds go back to ancient Egypt. People have found drawings and engravings from ancient Egypt that show hunting dogs with short legs. But the dachshund of today was bred in Europe, and it has parts of German, French, and English hounds and terriers.

Kings and queens all over Europe have had dachshunds. Queen Victoria especially liked dachshunds.


</doc>
<doc id="23654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23654" title="Karachi">
Karachi

Karachi (Urdu:کراچی) is the largest city and the "National City" of Pakistan and the capital of the province of Sindh and former federal capital. It's former name found in history books is "Mai Kolachi Jo Goth" and "Karatishi" is also one of the old version of its name. A native of Karachi is called a Karachiite. The city is the financial and commercial centre of Pakistan. It has two important regional seaports. The city lies on the coast of the Arabian Sea west of the Indus River delta. Karachi generates the largest share of Pakistan's GDP and national revenue. The population is estimated at approximately 12 million, making it the third largest cities in the world after Shanghai and Mumbai.It has five districts: District South, District East, District West, District Central, and Distrct Malir. Karachi has the most number of districts in Sindh after Hyderabad, which has six districts. Quad-e-Azam (Muhammad Ali Jinnah) father of the nation was born and buried in Karachi.

Apart from the University of Karachi, there are several other institutions of higher education and numerous colleges and schools in Karachi. Karachi is home to the National Stadium which hosts many cricket games, and several other sports complexes. The city has several long sandy beaches including Clifton/Kemari beach and Sandspit beach. Clifton beach suffered from a recent oil spillage but the beach has been cleaned.Karachi has Pakistan's first nuclear site KANUP in 1952 from Canada.City has 26 universities some of them are 1.Karachi university-KU 2.Nadirshaw Eduljee Deenshaw engineering university-NED University Hamdard Medical University & 4. Dow University of Health Sciences.Karachi has the honor to host the first ever night hockey match between India and Pakistan in 1986 at Hockey Club of Pakistan Stadium but failed to gain the official status due to having no night hockey match recognition by World Hockey federation at that time.

Karachi has many large and small shopping areas including the Saddar area in downtown Karachi. Karachi also has a number of large modern shopping malls. The city has a modern international airport called the Quaid-e-Azam International Airport and two large shipping ports at Port of Karachi and Port Qasim. Karachi is linked by railway to the rest of Pakistan.



</doc>
<doc id="23662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23662" title="Transliteration">
Transliteration

Transliteration is how writing is changed from a writing system or alphabet to another, while making each sound stay the same. There are different systems of writing in the world. Some use letters to write out sounds, and others use characters to write out whole words that have many sounds in them. Transliteration is what happens when letters from an alphabet match letters of another alphabet, that have the same sounds. Most often this is done by spelling the sounds of one system, with the letters or symbols of another. For example, the Cyrillic letter "я" is usually written as "ya".




</doc>
<doc id="23663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23663" title="Taoism">
Taoism

Taoism or Daoism is a type of belief.

It is at least 2,500 years old and it comes from China. Taoism can be called a religion or a philosophy, based on how a person interprets Taoism. This article is about what people call "philosophical Taoism." There is another system of belief that people call "Religious Taoism."

道 Tao or Dao is the name of the Force or the "Way" that Taoists believe makes everything in the world. Taoists think that words cannot be used to say the right things about Tao. The very first line of the "道德经 Dào Dé Jīng (Tao Te Ching), the most important text in Taoism, says:

This is pronounced like, "Dow kuh dow fei chong dow." One translation of this into English language might be:

Instead of spending a lot of time trying to explain what the Tao is, Taoists focus on living a simple and balanced life in harmony with nature. This is one of the most important principles in Taoism. Taoists also believe that conflict is not good and that if you have a problem with something, it is better to find a way around it.

Some important Taoists are:


</doc>
<doc id="23667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23667" title="Adjustment">
Adjustment

An adjustment is when something is changed in a small way. This is usually to make it better. The word can be used as a verb, as in "Bill needs to adjust his tie".

Examples of adjustments:



</doc>
<doc id="23668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23668" title="Poverty">
Poverty

Poverty means not having enough money for basic needs such as food, water, shelter, or toilets. Many people in different countries live in poverty, especially in developing areas of Africa, Latin America and some parts Asia.

There are different ways to measure poverty. The World Bank says that "extreme poverty" is when someone has less than US$1 a day to live on (that dollar is an ideal one). It has been changed to rule out certain effects such as inflation, meaning that prices of things rise higher than what a person is paid, and other price level differences). "Moderate poverty" is when people have to live on less than $2 a day. In the year 2001, 1.1 billion people were seen as "extremely poor", and 2.7 billion were seen as "moderately poor". 

In the developed world this does not apply. There, many people are seen as the "working poor". They have a job, but do not earn enough money for basic things such as food and a home. In most developed countries, people without jobs receive money from the government, but this is often less than they need for a comfortable life. 

There are different ways to tell if a country is rich or poor. The Gross Domestic Product, or GDP, and Human Development Index, or HDI, are two of those measures. Gross Domestic Product is the money made from trade from inside the country. 

HDI, meaning the Human Development Index is a different matter. It is determined by life expectancy and adult literacy rates. Places in Africa like Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone are the poorest, with Sierra Leone having the lowest HDI ranking in the world.

Poverty is a hurdle in the way of a country's progress. One way of helping lower poverty is by educating poor people, so that they can start contributing to a nation's economic development. Education teaches the poor about their rights and may show them the path to become an important part in growth and expansion of the country.

One of the most important things that is needed to make a country richer is for the Government to want to help poor people do better. Without this it is hard for people to become better off.


</doc>
<doc id="23671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23671" title="Cabin">
Cabin

A cabin is a small building where people live. They are often made of wood and are usually located in forest or mountain areas. Many cabins do not have electricity or running water. Cabins are smaller than houses.

Cabins are English loan-words, meaning “room or partition of a vessel”. 


</doc>
<doc id="23672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23672" title="Course">
Course

A course can mean one of these things:



</doc>
<doc id="23677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23677" title="British Empire">
British Empire

The British Empire was a global power that contained territories owned by the United Kingdom. The empire was the largest empire in history, and at its peak controlled 23% of the world's surface. More than 458 million people were brought under the control of the British Empire. Today, most of its members are in the Commonwealth of Nations. The most famous part of the British Empire was the East India Trading Company, which started out as a small business before becoming a very large trading company which many people depended on.

The British Empire was seen as a "role model" for other nations, most notably Germany. Germany had a bad habit of starting wars in Europe, in part because they wanted an Empire like the one that Britain had established. The people of the UK and Germany are like cousins, and Germany wanted to be successful like Britain. 

The British Empire began to decline after World War II, when Britain decided to give back colonies, known as Decolonization. Britain decided to give back nations because her work was done. The British had taken all the available resources from each country, the spread of Christianity was complete and the English language was all over the world. Also, many of the persons the Empire had ruled over wanted to be in charge of their own country rather than being led by the British from London. 

One of the last parts of the British Empire that was alive was Hong Kong, which was given back to China in 1997. Britain retained its title as a 'Superpower' in 1982 with the Falkland's War, a War against Argentina over the possession of the Falkland Islands. 

There are currently 14 remaining overseas territories under UK sovereignty. 


</doc>
<doc id="23689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23689" title="Chimbote">
Chimbote

Chimbote is the largest city in the Ancash Region of Peru. The city has over 400,000 residents.

It is on the coast of the Pacific Ocean. Most of the people of Chimbote catch fish, or work with seafood in some way. The city catches more fish than any other place in Peru. 

Chimbote is known for its good version of the national dish of Peru, ceviche. Chimbote is also the hometown of the former president of Peru, Alejandro Toledo.


</doc>
<doc id="23690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23690" title="Tram">
Tram

A tram (tramcar, trolley, streetcar, or street railway) is a passenger vehicle that is like a light train. It carries people to places within a city. Because a single tram can carry many people at the same time, riding on a tram instead of driving a car is a good way to help prevent pollution and stop the roads getting too busy


</doc>
<doc id="23692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23692" title="Fast food">
Fast food

Fast food is the term for a kind of food that people eat from a restaurant where food is prepared and served quickly. There are many different kinds of fast food, but among the most popular are hamburgers, cheeseburgers and French fries (chips). 

The restaurants that sell fast food are called "fast food shops" or "fast food restaurants". Some of the more common fast food restaurants are McDonald's, Wendy's, Burger King, Taco Bell, and KFC.

When a lot of fast food is eaten, it can cause health problems and complications, such as high cholesterol, clogged arteries, diabetes, obesity, and death.


</doc>
<doc id="23694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23694" title="Ford">
Ford

Ford can mean more than one thing:


</doc>
<doc id="23695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23695" title="Scott Joplin">
Scott Joplin

Scott Joplin was a well-known ragtime musician and composer.
Joplin was born in the U.S. state of Texas sometime between June 1867 and January 1868, and died in 1917. Though he was from Texas, most of his pieces were written when he was in Missouri and New York City.

Joplin is most well-known for writing piano pieces called rags. His music became popular again in the 1970s, with the album "Scott Joplin: Piano Rags", performed by Joshua Rifkin, from Nonesuch Records. He may be most commonly known now by the Marvin Hamlisch adaptation of his composition "The Entertainer" (1902) which was used in the 1973 movie "The Sting" starring Paul Newman and Robert Redford. His best-known song while he was alive was "Maple Leaf Rag" (1899). Other rags he wrote were "The Ragtime Dance" (1906) and "Magnetic Rag" (1914). Scott Joplin wrote more than 40 piano rags, but he also wrote two operas; "A Guest of Honor" and "Treemonisha". "A Guest of Honor" was performed in Joplin's lifetime, but since then the music has been lost. "Treemonisha" was never performed while Joplin was alive, but it has been performed since then. Joplin also wrote a symphony, but the music has been lost.


</doc>
<doc id="23697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23697" title="Propane">
Propane

Propane is an alkane (a hydrocarbon). An alkane is a molecule composed of the chemical elements hydrogen and carbon. Propane has three carbon atoms and eight hydrogen atoms, so its molecular formula is CH.

It begins to burn very quickly. 
Its melting temperature is −187.7 °C; its boiling temperature is −42 °C; its density is 1.83 g/l.

Propane is extracted from natural gasoline or from petroleum.


</doc>
<doc id="23710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23710" title="Flag of Japan">
Flag of Japan

The flag of Japan shows a red sun (rising sun) in the middle of a white field. It is called "Nisshoki" (日章旗) formally in Japan. But Japanese people usually call it "Hinomaru" (日の丸) which means "circle of the sun".
The Japanese navy uses the other flag; the sun has rays.
This flag represents the heat of the sun.


</doc>
<doc id="23712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23712" title="Nationalism">
Nationalism

Nationalism is an ideology that says that every ethnic group of humans should be free to rule itself. Nationalists think that the best way to make this happen is for every ethnic group to have its own nation or society that they can rule without being controlled or oppressed by anybody else. Many nationalists think that nationalism is the best way to save small and not powerful groups, which are threatened by the mixing of ethnic groups. Nationalists think that the world is better with lots of cultural diversity. They also think that diversity is threatened by worldwide influences and mixing.

Originally nationalism was found together with socialism. Many early socialists were also nationalists. Especially the earliest forms of nationalism had lots of socialist features. Many people who thought that ethnic group should not be oppressed by other ethnic groups thought also that normal folk, the backbone of society, like workers and peasants, should not be oppressed by higher social classes like rich people. They thought that it is wrong for somebody to live in great welfare that is made by hard work or even oppression of others. All the social classes should work together and have a common goals that aims for good of everyone. These goals can be called "national interest". National interest is ideal and not always easy to find. There are different ways to reach national interest, for example politics.

Nationalists started to support and admire the normal folk, especially peasants, who were seen uncorrupted, gallant and fair - unlike high classes. For example normal folk often had more original and local ethnic culture than high classes, whose culture was seen more rootless. National Romanticism was based much on the ideal of uncorrupt folk.

Socialism and nationalism grew together, but they have also been put to oppose each other in some cases. The most known opposition between these ideologies was in Soviet Union. The Soviet propaganda made nationalism an insult word that was linked with opposed ideologies like capitalism, liberalism, imperialism or fascism. Still even in Soviet Union and other communist or socialist countries there were lots of nationalism (even if it was not called with that name). The most capitalist countries like United States were rather patriotic than nationalist. The Nordic countries, which were amongst the most pure nation-states, (countries that follow nationalist principle) were not very capitalist or rightist, they were built on social democratic way that is at left side. Only after Nordic countries became more multicultural their politics became more rightist. 

Today nationalism does not have a common stand on those fields of politics that are outside of its basic goals, like left-right politics. However nationalism can be a part of bigger political ideology or agenda that can be leftist or rightist or something outside that classification.

Nationalism is still usually connected to goals that resist strong hierarchy between social classes inside society. Nationalist people are usually more or less against the strongest forms of capitalism, which they think gives too much power of rich people and big companies.

Nationalism is the opposite of imperialism. Imperialism tries to make big nations that have many ethnic groups. In imperialist states, some groups are usually more powerful and are seen as better than others. Nationalists think that such hierarchy is bad. They say that in nations with one ethnic group, everyone has the same value and power. Sometimes nationalism is used to support imperialism, but that is against the original idea of nationalism. Such using of political ideas against their original purpose is quite usual in politics and happens with many other ideas too.

Nationalism had important role in ending the colonial rule. Nationalism spread to colonies and made their people to desire independence. Nationalism also made the people in metropolitan states (countries that colonized others) to accept more the desire of other people to rule themselves. However nationalists think that the end of colonialization of Africa was not done well. They think that there would not be so many conflicts in Africa if African nations had built in a nationalist way (so that every ethnic group is its own nation). After the imperialists left their African colonies, the new nations were built with borders that were not the same as the ethnic borders. New nations became nations with many ethnic groups, which do not want to or cannot live peacefully in the same society with the others.



</doc>
<doc id="23713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23713" title="Drought">
Drought

Drought () is when an area gets less than its normal amount rain over months or even years. Crops and other plants need water to grow, and land animals need it to live. It can become dangerous to people; causing famine and even creating deserts. Drought is a natural event, caused by other weather events like El Nino and high pressure systems. Drought can also be triggered by people cutting down forests, by global warming, and by diverting rivers or emptying lakes.


</doc>
<doc id="23714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23714" title="Deafness">
Deafness

Deafness is when someone cannot hear or cannot hear well. There were many famous people who were deaf, such as Ludwig van Beethoven and Helen Keller. Deafness is also known as 'hearing loss'.

A person is considered to be deaf if they cannot hear the same range of sounds as a person with normal hearing ability. People that cannot hear any sounds are also deaf. People who are partially deaf may hear some sounds and may hear words.


There are different causes of deafness:

These categories may overlap.


</doc>
<doc id="23716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23716" title="Liver bird">
Liver bird

The Liver birds are two large and famous bronze metal birds on top of a building - the Liver Building - in the city of Liverpool, England. The building has the offices of an insurance organization. The birds are symbol of the city, although no birds really look like this. 

The sound of the end of the word "liver" in the name of the bird is like "driver" not "river". The start of the word Liverpool ("liver") sounds like the word "river". This is a funny play on words. 

There is also a British television sitcom with the same name that is about two women in Liverpool. The play on words is increased by a second British slang meaning of the word "bird" to mean a young woman.

Many people in Liverpool (they are known as "Liverpudlians") are proud of their city and of the Liver birds. There is a story that the birds will come alive if a truly pure woman walks between them. This will never happen! This is an example of the humor of the local people.


</doc>
<doc id="23717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23717" title="Demonstration">
Demonstration

A demonstration can mean an event where people do something to let others know what they think and to try to change people's point of view. A demonstration is usually considered more successful the more people participate.

Examples of this type of demonstration include marches and rallies.

In 2003 many people demonstrated against the 2003 Invasion of Iraq.

A demonstration can also mean when someone shows how to do something, or in what ways a thing can be used. Salespeople often demonstrate things like computers, cars, and televisions to customers so they can make sure the customer sees all the features of the item. ""Demo"" is short for demonstration, and people often use it to describe this meaning of the word.


</doc>
<doc id="23718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23718" title="Chartist">
Chartist

The Chartists were people who wanted to get more rights for working class people in the mid-19th century. They were called Chartists because they wrote their main aims down in the People's Charter of 1838. They were an all-man group.



</doc>
<doc id="23721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23721" title="Movie theater">
Movie theater

A movie theatre is a place where movies are shown on a big screen. People or "patrons" (the audience) watch movies, usually in chairs. A movie theatre is sometimes called a "cinema". A theatre with multiple screens commonly is called a "multi-plex" or "mega-plex" (if more than 10 screens). Movie theatres have comfortable chairs. There are different types of formats of a movie theatre

The first movie theatre was opened to the public on April 23, 1896, in Koster and Bial's Music Hall on 34th Street in New York City. The oldest movie theatre in the world, which is still in action today is the "Kino Pionier" (opened 1907) in Szczecin, Poland.
Movie theatres make money from not only movie tickets but from concessions which sell food and drinks. In recent years with the increase of film rental costs, theatres have become more and more creative about how they make money. New theatres being built include restaurants, party rooms, conference rooms, arcades and more.


</doc>
<doc id="23728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23728" title="1654">
1654


</doc>
<doc id="23731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23731" title="The KLF">
The KLF

The KLF were a band from England. They made music from the late 1980s until the early 1990s. A lot of the music they made was pop music or dance music. The band members were two men, Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty. Bill Drummond is a musician, singer, and writer from Scotland. Jimmy Cauty is a musician and artist from England. Sometimes they used the names The Justified Ancients of Mu Mu, The JAMs and The Timelords as their band name, instead.


</doc>
<doc id="23734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23734" title="Monounsaturated fat">
Monounsaturated fat

Monounsaturated fats are found in food items, more particularly natural foods like nuts and avocados. They are the main component in olive oil (oleic acid). 

In general, these fats are considered to be healthier as compared to the others. They have the same amount of energy, but they reduce blood cholesterol levels. This reduces the risk to the heart.



</doc>
<doc id="23735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23735" title="Polyunsaturated fat">
Polyunsaturated fat

Polyunsaturated fats are fats that are usually found in items like vegetable oils. Such items are typically found to be liquid at room temperature. 

Polyunsaturated fats are called as organic compounds. Its molecules contains more than one double bonds. The peculiar structure reduces the strength of the forces between molecules. This causes the items to have a lower melting point. This is why the items are usually liquid at room temperature.



</doc>
<doc id="23739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23739" title="The North Avenue Irregulars">
The North Avenue Irregulars

The North Avenue Irregulars is a 1979 movie starring Edward Hermann.

The movie is about a newly installed minister, who entrusts, despite objections by the founding pastors daughter, the churches "sinking fund" money into the hands of a congregate whom he does not even know, with instructions to increase the amount in the fund. 

The money is bet on a horse race, and upon hearing this, the Pastor gives the shortest sermon in history and begins a pursuit of the money and the organized crime syndicate, amid the hijinx of assorted feminine members of the congregation in a pursuit of the "money trail".


</doc>
<doc id="23740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23740" title="Candleshoe">
Candleshoe

Candleshoe is a 1977 Walt Disney Productions live action movie. It stars Jodie Foster as Casey Brown, Helen Hayes as Lady St. Edmund (in her last screen appearance), David Niven as Priory (as well as Colonel Dennis and Mr. Gipping), and Leo McKern as Harry Bundage. Candleshoe is loosely based on the Michael Innes novel "Christmas at Candleshoe".


</doc>
<doc id="23748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23748" title="Hikaru Utada">
Hikaru Utada

Hikaru Utada (宇多田ヒカル "Utada Hikaru", born January 19 1983 in New York City), is an American-born Japanese singer and songwriter. Because she was born in the United States, she can speak English perfectly. She is the only child of the 1970s Enka singer Keiko Fuji. Her first Japanese album, "First Love", was very popular. It sold more copies than any other Japanese singer ever. She is also known in the west for singing the theme songs for "Kingdom Hearts" and "Kingdom Hearts II"; "Simple and Clean" and "Sanctuary".

When Hikaru was little, she did not want to become a singer. She saw how busy her mother and father's lives were, and did not want that for herself. When she was 10-years-old, her parents asked her if she wanted to write songs. She did not want to, but tried doing it. She wrote a song called "I'll Be Stronger". During this time, Hikaru went to school in New York. Her classmates were not able to say her name right (Hee-ka-roo) so they shortened it to 'Hikki'. 'Hikki' became Hikaru's nickname. Her fans in Japan call her that. The name is not promoted very much in the United States because it sounds too much like 'hickey'.

In 1996, Hikaru started to record an album, when she was only 13 years-old. It was in English. The album was in the R&B style. It was written all by herself. The album was going to be released on the EMI' record company, but since the company fell apart, it was never sold in the United States. A man called Akira Miyake from Japan heard the album, and wanted to release it there. Hikaru agreed, and the album was released in Japan in 1998.

The album sold okay, but it was not until later when Hikaru started to sing Japanese songs that she became famous. Her music still sounded very R&B, but at this point it sounded more pop. Her first single, "Automatic / Time Will Tell", reached #2 on the single charts in Japan. A while later, after another single, she released her first Japanese album, "First Love". This sold a very large amount (over 9 million copies) and became the most sold album by a Japanese singer.

Hikaru went on to release two more albums, "Distance" (2001), and "Deep River" (2002). In each album, her style changed slightly. Each album was less R&B, and more Pop. In 2004, she released an album made of all her old single songs. She next released an album in English called "Exodus". "Exodus" was released under the record label Island Def-Jam. It was sold in Japan, the United States, and the United Kingdom. She sung, wrote and made the music for the whole album herself (except for when she got hip-hop producer Timbaland to help her). The album sold many copies in Japan, but it did not sell that well in the United States. However, many famous people and music critics thought that the album was good (for example, Elton John thought it was interesting).

Hikaru has started to make new Japanese music again, but continued on making all the music herself. Usually, a singer/songwriter will only write the music and the lyrics, but Hikaru decided she wanted to arrange her songs all by herself as well. She released her new album, "Ultra Blue", in mid-2006. Soon after, she went on tour all across Japan. This is the second time she has ever done this (despite her singing for eight years).




</doc>
<doc id="23751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23751" title="Scramble for Africa">
Scramble for Africa

The Scramble for Africa (or the Race for Africa), from the 1880s until the start of World War I, was a time of much colonial expansion in Africa. Many European countries started colonies in Africa during this time. This is an example of New Imperialism.

The last half of the 19th century saw a change in the way countries controlled their colonies. They changed from economic control through mass settlement, to political and military control of the colony's resources, especially in the 1870]. This was seen in the fight for the areas that were controlled by European nations. 

Some famous people who helped European countries find more land in Africa included the explorers David Livingston, Henry Morton Stanley, and Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza, and the French politician Jules Ferry.

The Berlin Conference (1884 - 1885) tried to end the fight between the United Kingdom, France's Third Republic and the German Empire. At this conference, they agreed that "effective occupation" would be the rule for colonial claims. Laws were made for using direct rule on a colony, backed up by military power.



</doc>
<doc id="23752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23752" title="1160s">
1160s






</doc>
<doc id="23763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23763" title="Seaweed">
Seaweed

Seaweed is a term used for several forms of multicellular marine algae. Red algae, Green algae and Brown algae are commonly considered to be seaweed. Seaweed gets its energy from photosynthesis. Because it looks very different from other plants, seaweed is usually not considered to be a plant.

Two specific environmental requirements dominate seaweed ecology. These are the presence of seawater (or at least brackish water) and the presence of enough light for photosynthesis. Often, a firm attachment point is also needed. 

For this reason, seaweeds can be found in the littoral zone of the sea. Within that zone, they are more frequent on a rocky shore, than on sand. 

Another common requirement is a firm attachment point. As a result, seaweeds most commonly inhabit the littoral zone and within that zone more frequently on rocky shores than on sand or shingle. Seaweeds occupy a wide range of ecological niches. The highest elevation is only wetted by the tops of sea spray, the lowest is several meters deep. In some areas, littoral seaweeds can extend several miles out to sea. The limiting factor in such cases is sunlight availability. The deepest living seaweeds are the various kelps.

A number of species such as "Sargassum" have adapted to a fully planktonic niche and are free-floating, depending on gas-filled sacs to maintain an acceptable depth.

Others have adapted to live in tidal rock pools. In this niche seaweeds must withstand rapidly changing temperature and salinity and even occasional drying.

Seaweed has different uses. Sometimes it is farmed or foraged from the wild.

People living on the coast often eat seaweed, especially those in East Asia, such as Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. It is also used in Belize, Peru, the Canadian Maritimes, Scandinavia, Ireland, Wales, Philippines, and Scotland.

Tiwi, Albay residents discovered a new pancit or noodles made from seaweed. These have health benefits. Seaweed is rich in calcium and magnesium and seaweed noodles can be cooked into pancit canton, pancit luglug, spaghetti or carbonara.

In Asia, Zicai (紫菜) (in China), gim (in Korea) and nori (in Japan) are sheets of dried "Porphyra" used in soups or to wrap sushi. "Chondrus crispus" (commonly known as Irish moss or carrageenan moss) is another red alga used in producing various food additives, along with Kappaphycus and various gigartinoid seaweeds. "Porphyra" is a red alga used in Wales to make laver. Laverbread, made from oats and the laver, is a popular dish there. Affectionately called "Dulce" in northern Belize, seaweeds are mixed with milk, nutmeg, cinnamon, and vanilla to make a common beverage.

Seaweeds are also harvested or cultivated for the extraction of alginate, agar and carrageenan, gelatinous substances collectively known as hydrocolloids or phycocolloids. Hydrocolloids have attained commercial significance as food additives. The food industry exploits their gelling, water-retention, emulsifying and other physical properties. Agar is used in foods such as confectionery, meat and poultry products, desserts and beverages and moulded foods. Carrageenan is used in salad dressings and sauces, dietetic foods, and as a preservative in meat and fish products, dairy items and baked goods.

Seaweed is a source of iodine, necessary for thyroid function and to prevent goitre.

Seaweed extract is used in some diet pills. Other seaweed pills exploit the same effect as gastric banding, expanding in the stomach to make the body feel more full.

Seaweed is currently under consideration as a potential source of bioethanol. Seaweed is an ingredient in some toothpaste, cosmetics and paints.


</doc>
<doc id="23778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23778" title="Fairy tale">
Fairy tale

A Fairy tale is an English language expression for a kind of short story. It has the same meaning as the French expression "conte de fée", the German word "Märchen", the Italian "fiaba", the Polish "baśń" or the Swedish "saga". These stories are not all directly about fairies, but they are different from legends and traditions (which usually say that the stories are true) and directly moral stories. There are usually fairies, goblins, elves, trolls, giants or gnomes in fairy tales, and usually magic.

Fairy tales can also mean unusual happiness (for example, the expression "fairy tale ending", meaning a happy ending, even though not all fairy tales have a happy ending). Also, "fairy tale" can simply mean any unbelievable story.

Where demons and witches are seen as real, fairy tales can sometimes be similar to legends, where the story is claimed to be historically true. However, differently from legends and epics, they usually do not specifically mention religion and actual places, people, and events. They also do not say exactly when it happened. Instead, they say that the story happened "once upon a time".

Fairy tales are found in oral form (passed on from mouth to mouth) and in literary form (written down). Fairy tales' histories are hard to find. This is because only written fairy tales can be passed on for a long time. Still, literary works show that there has been fairy tales for thousands of years. Many fairy tales today have are based on very old stories that have appeared, though in different ways, in many different cultures around the world. Fairy tales, and works based on from fairy tales, are still written today.

At first, fairy tales were for both adults and children, but now children are mostly connected with fairy tales. Examples of traditional old fairy tales are "Sleeping Beauty", "Little Red Riding Hood" and "The Three Little Pigs". There can also be new fairy tales written by an author, like "The Little Mermaid" or "Pinocchio". New fairy tales were for example written by Hans Christian Andersen, James Thurber and Oscar Wilde.

People do not agree what a fairy tale exactly is. Some argue that a story with fairies or other magical beings in the story would make it a fairy tale. However, others have suggested that the expression began when the French expression "conte de fées" was being translated (it was first used by Madame D'Aulnoy in 1697). Vladimir Propp criticized the difference between "fairy tales" and "animal tales" in his book "Morphology of the Folktale". He said that many stories had both fantastic qualities and animals. He suggested that fairy tales could be recognized by their story, but this has been criticized, because the same stories can be found in stories that are not fairy tales.

In fact, people such as Stith Thompson point out that there are often more talking animals and magic in fairy tales than fairies. However, just because there is a talking animal in a story does not mean that the story is a fairy tale.

Steven Swann Jones said that fairy tales were different from other sorts of folktales because of magic. Davidson and Chaudri say that "transformation (changing)" is the most important part of a fairy tale.

Some like to use the German expression "Märchen" or "wonder tale" instead of "fairy tale". For example, in his 1977 edition of "The Folktale", Thompson said that fairy tales were "a tale of some length involving a succession of motifs or episodes. It moves in an unreal world without definite locality or definite creatures and is filled with the marvelous. In this never-never land, humble heroes kill adversaries (enemies), succeed to kingdoms and marry princesses." The characters and motifs of fairy tales are simple: princesses and girls taking care of geese; youngest sons and brave princes; ogres, giants, dragons, and trolls; wicked stepmothers and false heroes; fairy godmothers and other magic helpers, often talking horses, or foxes, or birds; rules, and people breaking rules.

Fairy tales were passed down by speaking of it from person to person before writing was developed. Stories were told or acted out dramatically. Because of this, the history of fairy tales is not very clear. The oldest written fairy tales we know are from ancient Egypt, around 1300 BC. There are sometimes fairy tales in written literature in different cultures, such as "The Golden Ass", which includes "Cupid and Psyche" (Roman, 100–200 AD). They show that fairy tales were told from very long ago.




</doc>
<doc id="23779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23779" title="Category:Buildings and structures">
Category:Buildings and structures

This category is for important buildings and similar structures.


</doc>
<doc id="23780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23780" title="Game show">
Game show

A game show is a program where people play a game for points, with the goal of winning money or prizes. Different game shows use different games. Some game shows involve word games, and others involve tests of skill or general knowledge. Many game shows incorporate some element of chance; for example, in "Wheel of Fortune", contestants spin a wheel to determine how much prize money they will have to wager.

Some game shows have the contestents compete against other individual contestants; other game shows group contestants into teams. Some game shows have regular people as the contestants. Other game shows have celebrities such as movie actors or musicians as the contestants. 

Many game shows air on the Game Show Network and stations like NBC, ABC, and G4 .

Game shows often reward people with money, holidays, or cars. These prizes are often given by the people or group of people that give the game show money to run. The people who give the game show money to run are called sponsors. 

The first game shows were on radio.

Examples of game shows include:



</doc>
<doc id="23781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23781" title="Genre">
Genre

A genre (from Latin: "genus") is a style or type of music, literature (books about stories), movies, and other media (methods of communication such as television, movies, or newspapers). Different pop music genres (styles) include rock and roll, hip hop, and pop punk. Some of the different literature genres (styles) include detective stories, mystery stories, and romance novels (stories). Some of the different movie genres include comedy, romance, action movies, and film noir (1940s and 1950s movies about crime). Other media (methods of communication) that have genres include television and theater.

Some genres (styles) are used in more than one form of art or communication. For example, the genre of fantasy is used in literature (books about stories), movies, and television. The genre of science fiction is also used in literature (books about stories), movies, and television.


</doc>
<doc id="23782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23782" title="Category:Arabic words">
Category:Arabic words


</doc>
<doc id="23795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23795" title="Category:Agriculture">
Category:Agriculture

Agriculture


</doc>
<doc id="23796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23796" title="Category:Mascots">
Category:Mascots


</doc>
<doc id="23800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23800" title="Kristy Swanson">
Kristy Swanson

Kristy Swanson (born Renee Kristen Swanson on December 19, 1969) is an American actress. She is best known for playing the title character in the movie "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and has also starred in the film "Flowers in the Attic".


</doc>
<doc id="23805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23805" title="Octopus">
Octopus

The Octopus is a cephalopod mollusc in the order Octopoda. Octopuses have two eyes and four pairs of arms equipped with suckers. An octopus has a hard beak, and its mouth is at the center point of the arms. 

Most octopuses have no internal or external skeleton, allowing them to squeeze through tight places. Octopuses are intelligent predators with a taste for crabs.

The octopus inhabits many regions of the ocean, especially coral reefs. For defense against predators, they hide, flee quickly, expel ink, or use color-changing camouflage. They live rather short lives.

An octopus trails its eight arms behind it as it swims. All octopuses are venomous, but only the small blue-ringed octopuses are known to be deadly to humans.

There are about 300 octopus species, which is over one-third of the total number of known cephalopods. The term octopus may also be used to refer only to those creatures in the genus "Octopus". 

Unlike most other cephalopods, most octopuses have only soft body with no internal skeleton. They have no protective outer shell like the nautilus, which is another type of cephalopod.
A beak, similar in shape to a parrot's beak, is their only hard part.

Because of this, it is very easy for an octopus to squeeze through very narrow openings between rocks, for example squeezing through a hole as big as its eye.

Octopuses are highly intelligent, probably more so than any other invertebrate. The exact extent of their intelligence and learning capability is much debated among biologists. Maze and problem-solving experiments have shown that they do have both short and long-term memory. Their short lifespans limit the amount they can learn. 

Some octopuses, such as the Mimic Octopus, can move their arms in ways which copy the movements of other sea creatures.

In laboratory experiments, octopuses can be readily trained to distinguish between different shapes and patterns. They have been seen in what some have described as play: repeatedly releasing bottles or toys into a circular current in their aquariums and then catching them. Octopuses often break out of their aquaria and sometimes into others in search of food. They have even boarded fishing boats and opened holds to eat crabs.

In the UK, cephalopods such as octopuses are regarded as "honorary vertebrates" under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 giving them protection not normally afforded to invertebrates.

The octopus is the only invertebrate which has been conclusively shown to use tools. At least four specimens of the Veined Octopus ("Amphioctopus marginatus") have been seen picking up discarded coconut shells, and then reassembling them to use as shelter.

Octopods are active and intelligent predators, with good eyesight and brains. They eat mostly crabs and some fish. Some species of octopuses eat other octopuses. 

Octopods have a variety of defences. They use active camouflage and mimicry, controlled by their nervous system. Most can eject black ink clouds to help escape, and some can shed an arm in extreme danger. It wriggles, and attracts the attacker.

Octopuses' eyes are complex. In fact, the octopus does not have a blind spot. A "blind spot" is a special place in the eyes that is not able to sense light. So, when we look somewhere, part of what is there is not actually perceived (the brain 'fills in' so we do not notice). However, an octopus does not have this problem.

Octopus eyes' lens are movable. It moves back and forth to focus. This is the way a camera focuses. When a camera focuses on an object to take a picture, the lens moves back and forth until the image that the camera sees is in the right focus.

Some octopuses can use their chromatophores for more than camouflage. If they are not blending in with their surroundings, they can signal their feelings using color. When they are relaxed, for example, they are a dull, grayish brown or orange-tinged color. When they become angry, they can become red. If they feel scared, they may turn white.

When octopuses reproduce, males use a specialized arm to put packets of sperm into the female's mantle cavity. Males die within a few months of mating. In some species, the female octopus can keep the sperm alive inside her for weeks until her eggs are mature.

After they have been fertilized, the female lays about 200,000 eggs (this figure dramatically varies between species). The female cares for the eggs, guarding them against predators, and gently blowing currents of water over them so that they get enough oxygen. The female does not hunt during the roughly one-month period spent taking care of the unhatched eggs and may ingest some of her own arms for sustenance. 

At around the time the eggs hatch, the mother leaves the lair and is too weak to defend herself from predators like cod, often succumbing to their attacks. The young larval octopuses spend a period of time drifting in clouds of plankton, where they feed until they are ready to descend to the ocean bottom, where the cycle repeats.

Octopuses have a relatively short life expectancy, and some species live for as little as six months. Larger species, such as the North Pacific Giant Octopus, may live for up to five years under suitable circumstances. 

"Reproduction is a cause of death": males can only live for a few months after mating, and females die shortly after their eggs hatch. They neglect to eat during the (roughly) one month period spent taking care of their unhatched eggs, but apparently they do not die of starvation. A biological explanation of these short lifespans (or rapid ageing) is not agreed at present.


</doc>
<doc id="23810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23810" title="Category:Psychology">
Category:Psychology

These are articles about Psychology.


</doc>
<doc id="23811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23811" title="Byzantine Empire">
Byzantine Empire

The Byzantine Empire (or Eastern Roman Empire) was the name of the Greek part of the Roman Empire which survived into the Middle Ages. Its capital was Constantinople, which today is in Turkey, and is now called Istanbul. Unlike the Western Roman Empire, its people spoke Greek, not Latin and had a largely Greek culture and identity.

The Roman Emperor Constantine I moved the capital of the Roman Empire to the city of "Byzantium", and he renamed the city Constantinople. Many years later, after the city of Rome was taken over by Germanic people, the 'Roman' Empire was moved to Constantinople, and a new empire was born. The new empire had a smaller territory than the original Roman Empire.

The Byzantine Empire tried to take back Rome and Italy from the Germans. Between 500–600 AD, the Byzantines won many battles and took back Rome.

These gains did not last however. More Germans came and eventually Italy and Rome was lost again. Worse was to come when Avar peoples came to take Bulgaria and Greece from the Byzantines. After a few battles, the Avars won much of northern Greece and Bulgaria. These Avars later called themselves Bulgarians.

After Rome was captured by Germanic People, the Byzantine Empire continued to control Egypt, Greece, Palestine, Syria and Turkey. However, another Empire, known as the Persian Empire, tried to take over these lands for itself. Between 476–628 AD, the Byzantines and the Persians fought many battles, with many men killed in the fighting. Eventually, the Persians were finally defeated in modern-day Iraq, near the ancient city of Nineveh in 627 AD, allowing the Byzantines to keep their lands.

After this, another enemy appeared: the Arabs. The Byzantines were economically damaged by the battles with the Persians. They could not withstand the Arabs. Palestine, Syria and Egypt were lost. However, the Byzantines defended Turkey well and the Arab advance stopped.

In 717 AD, the Arabs were defeated outside of the Byzantine Capital, Constantinople, ending the Arab threat in the east. In the west, the Byzantines launched a number of attacks against the Bulgarians. Some of these were successful, others were not and led to the deaths of many Emperors. In time, the Byzantine Empire became stronger and her enemies around her weaker as they fought amongst themselves.

Between 1007–1014, the Byzantine Emperor Basil II attacked Bulgaria many times and eventually won a great victory. Later, he fully recaptured Greece, adding it back to the Byzantine Empire. He then went on to conquer Bulgaria, which was completed in 1018.

In the east, the Arabs once again became a threat to the Empire. However, Basil II's attacks won many more victories. Much of Syria was restored to the Empire and Turkey and Armenia were secured. After 1025, the Arabs were no longer a threat to the Byzantine Empire.

After the good Byzantine Emperor Basil II died, many bad Emperors came to the throne. They wasted the money of the Empire and reduced her army. This meant that she could not defend herself well against her enemies if they would attack. Later, the Byzantines relied on soldiers who fought for money and not for their country, so they were less reliable but more expensive.

A large number of people known as the Turks rode on horseback from central Asia and attacked the Byzantine Empire. They took all of Turkey from the Byzantines by 1091. However, the Byzantines received help from people in Europe. This help is known as the First Crusade. Many knights and soldiers left to help the Byzantines but also to secure Jerusalem for Christians, which at the time was in Muslim hands.

The Byzantine Empire survived and with the help of the Europeans took back half of Turkey from the Turks, with the other half remaining under the Turks. The Byzantines survived because three good Emperors ruled one after the other, allowing the Byzantines to grow strong again.

After the three good Emperors, the remaining Emperors ruled badly and again wasted a lot of money and soldiers.

In the west, the Europeans betrayed the Byzantines and attacked their capital, Constantinople. The Byzantines lost their capital in 1204 and they did not take it back until 1261. The Byzantines were then divided into many smaller Greek states that were fighting with each other for the throne of the Empire.

After the Byzantines took back Constantinople, they were too busy fighting the Europeans who had betrayed them and could not find enough soldiers or money to fight the Turks. Eventually, all of Turkey was lost by 1331.

In 1354, the Turks crossed over from Turkey and into Greece, taking over much of Greece between 1354–1450. The Byzantines lost so much land, money and soldiers that they became very weak and begged for help from the Europeans. Some soldiers and ships came from Italy and the Pope to assist the Byzantines when the Turks attacked Constantinople in April 1453. They were very outnumbered though, and the walls of Constantinople were badly damaged by cannons used by the Turks. At the end of May 1453 the Turks captured Constantinople by entering through one of the gates along the walls and the Empire came to an end. As with many medieval conquests, the people of the captured city were killed or taken captive, and many buildings were damaged by robbers and looters. Constantinople became the capital of the Ottoman Empire, which it would be until the 1900's, when the capital was moved to Ankara, a city in the Asian part of Turkey.

The Empire had many achievements:


</doc>
<doc id="23812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23812" title="Category:Psychologists">
Category:Psychologists


</doc>
<doc id="23826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23826" title="Guqin">
Guqin

The (Chinese: 古琴; pinyin: gǔqín; Wade-Giles: ku-ch'in; literally "ancient stringed-instrument") is the modern name for a plucked seven-string Chinese musical instrument of the zither family. It has been played since ancient times, and has traditionally been favored by educated people as an instrument of great beauty and refinement. It is uncommonly spelt as Gu Qin (and sometimes GuQin or Gu-qin) in English.

Traditionally the instrument was called simply qin 「琴」, but by the 20th century the term had come to be used on many other musical instruments as well (for example, the "yangqin" 「揚琴」 hammered dulcimer, the "huqin" 「胡琴」 family of bowed string instruments, and the Western piano (Chinese: 鋼琴; pinyin: gāng qín; literally "steel stringed-instrument")), so the prefix "gu-" 「古」 (meaning "ancient") was added for clarification. It can also be called qixianqin 「七絃琴」 ("seven-stringed instrument"). The guqin is not to be confused with the "guzheng", another Chinese long zither also without frets, but with moveable bridges under each string. Because Robert Hans van Gulik's famous book about the qin is called "The Lore of the Chinese Lute", the qin is sometimes inaccurately called a lute. Other incorrect classifications (mainly from music CDs) include "harp" or "table-harp".

The qin is a very quiet instrument, with a range of about four octaves, and its open strings are tuned in the bass register (its lowest pitch is about two octaves below middle C, or the lowest note on the cello). Sounds are produced by open strings, stopped strings, and harmonics. Stopped sounds are special for the variety of slides and ornaments used, and the use of glissando (sliding tones) gives it a sound similar to a pizzicato cello or fretless bass guitar. Extended sections in music scores consisting entirely of harmonics are common, this made possible because the 91 indicated harmonic positions allow great flexibility; early tablature shows that even more harmonic positions were used in the past. By tradition the qin originally had five strings, but ancient qin-like instruments with 10 or more strings have been found. The modern form has been standardized from about two thousand years.

Legend has it that the qin, has a history of about 5,000 years; that the legendary people of China's pre-history; Fuxi, Shennong and Huang Di (the Yellow Emperor), was involved in its creation. It is mentioned in Chinese writings dating back nearly 3,000 years, and related instruments have been found in tombs from about 2,500 years ago. Chinese tradition says the qin originally had five strings, but then two were added about 1,000 BCE, making seven. 

Based on the detailed description in the poetic essay "Qin Fu" 【琴賦】 by Xi Kang / Ji Kang (223–262), the form of the qin that is recognizable today was most likely set around the late Han Dynasty (206 BC - 220 AD). The earliest surviving qin in this modern form, preserved in both Japan and China, have been dated to the Tang Dynasty (618-907). Many are still playable, the most famous perhaps being the one named "Jiuxiao Huanpei" 《九霄環佩》, said to have been made by the famous late Tang dynasty qin maker Lei Wei (雷威). It is kept in the Forbidden City Museum in Beijing. 

According to Robert Temple, the qin played an important part in the gaining the first understanding of music timbre for the Chinese. He said that "the Chinese understanding of the nature of sound as vibration was much increased by studying the production of timbre on the strings of the "ch'in"." This understanding of timbre, overtones and higher harmonics eventually led the Chinese to discover equal temperament in music. 

In 1977, a recording of "Liu Shui" (Flowing Water, as performed by Guan Pinghu, one of the best qin players of the 20th century) was chosen to be included in the Voyager Golden Record, a gold-plated LP recording containing music from around the world, which was sent into outer space by NASA on the Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 spacecrafts. It is the longest music track included on the disc. In 2003, guqin music was proclaimed one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO.

Because of the difference in geography in China, many qin schools known as "qin pai" (琴派) developed over the centuries. Such schools generally formed around areas where qin activity was greatest. 

The main schools are: 

Most qin schools and groups are based in China. During the 20th century some societies began in other countries. Qin study was initially confined to China in ancient times. Today countries like Japan also have their own qin small traditions. The Tokyo Qin Society was recently founded. Japan has published a "qinpu" (qin tablature collection) in the past, known as "Toukou Kinpu" or "Donggao Qinpu" 【東臯琴譜】.

There have been many players throughout the ages. The instrument was a favourite of the scholars, so many artists played it. Some famous players are also associated with some melodies, like Confucius and Qu Yuan. 

Historical:


Classical books such as "Qin Shi", "Qinshi Bu" and "Qinshi Xu" have biographies of hundreds of more players.

The beauty of qin melodies comes not only from the melodies themselves, but from the variation a player can apply to the individual tones and their combinations. The rich tones of the qin can be categorised as three distinctively different "sounds." The first is "san yin" 〔散音〕, which means "scattered sounds." This meant simply pluck the required string to sound an open note. The second is "fan yin" 〔泛音〕, or "floating sounds." These are harmonics, and the player simply lightly touches the string with one or more fingers of the left hand at a position indicated by the white "hui" dots, pluck and then lift, creating a crisp and clear sound ringing sound. The third is "an yin" 〔按音 / 案音 / 實音 / 走音〕, or "stopped sounds." This forms the majority of most qin pieces and requires the player to press on a string with a finger or thumb of the left hand until it touches with the surface board, then pluck. Afterwards, the hand can slide up and down, thereby changing the pitch. 

When plucking the strings, it is not required to attach fake-nails on one's fingers. One will often leave their fingernails long, and cut them into an rounded shape. The length is subjective and will depend on the player's preference, but it is usually around 3-4mm from the finger tip. If it is too short, then the finger tip will deaden the sound as it touches the string after the nail has plucked it. If it is too long then the fingers can make playing difficult. Generally, the nails of the right hand are kept long, whilst the nails of the left are cut short, so as to be able to press on the strings without difficulty. 

There are eight basic right hand finger techniques: "pi" 〈劈〉 (thumb pluck outwards), "tuo" 〈托〉 (thumb pluck inwards), "mo" 〈抹〉 (index in), "tiao" 〈挑〉 (index out), "gou" 〈勾〉 (middle in), "ti" 〈剔〉 (middle out), "da" 〈打〉 (ring in), and "zhai" 〈摘〉 (ring out); the little finger is not used. Out of these basic eight, their combinations create many more. "Cuo" 〈撮〉 is to pluck two strings at the same time, "lun" 〈輪〉 is to pluck a string with the ring, middle and index finger out in quick succession, the "suo" 〈鎖〉 technique involves plucking a string several times in a fixed rhythm, "bo" 〈撥〉 cups the fingers and strums two strings at the same time, and "gun fu" 〈滾拂〉 is to create a sequence of sounds by running up and down the strings continuously with the index and middle fingers. These are just a few. 

Left hand techniques start from the simple pressing down on the string (mostly with the thumb between the flesh and nail, and the ring finger), sliding up or down to the next note ("shang" 〈上〉 and "xia" 〈下〉), to vibrati by swaying the hand ("yin" 〈吟〉 and "nao" 〈猱〉, there are as many as 15 plus different forms of vibrato), plucking the string with the thumb whilst the ring finger stops the string at the lower position ("qiaqi" 〈掐起 / 搯起〉), hammering on a string using the thumb ("yan" 〈掩 / 罨〉), to more difficult techniques such as pressing on several strings at the same time. 

Techniques executed by both hands together are more difficult to achieve, for example, "qia cuo san sheng" 〈掐撮三聲〉 (a combination of hammering on and off then plucking two strings, then repeating), to more exciting forms, like pressing of all seven strings with the left, then strumming all the strings with the right, then the left hand quickly moves up the qin, creating a rolling sound like a bucket of water being thrown in a deep pool of water (this technique is used in the Shu style of "Liu Shui" to copy the sound of water). 

In order to master the qin, there are in excess of 50 different techniques that must be mastered. Even the most commonly used (such as "tiao") are difficult to get right without proper instruction from a teacher. 

Written qin music did not directly tell what notes were played like many outer musical instruments; instead, it was written in a tablature detailing tuning, finger positions, and plucking technique, thus made up of a step by step method and description of how to play a piece. Some tablatures do indicate notes using the "gongche" notation system, or indicate rhythm using dots. 

The earliest example of the modern shorthand tablature survives from around the 12th century CE. An earlier form of music notation from the Tang era survives in just one manuscript, dated to the 7th century CE, called "Jieshi Diao: You Lan" 《碣石調幽蘭》 (Solitary Orchid, in Stone Tablet Mode). It is written in a longhand form called "wenzi pu" 〔文字譜〕 (literally "written notation"), which gives all the details using ordinary written Chinese characters. Later in the Tang dynasty, Cao Rou (曹柔) and others simplified the notation, using only the important elements of the characters (like string number, plucking technique, "hui" number and which finger to stop the string) and combined them into one character notation. This meant that instead of having two lines of written text to describe a few notes, a single character could represent one note, or sometimes as many as nine. This notation form was called "jianzi pu" 〔減字譜〕 (literally "reduced notation") and it was a great step forward for recording qin scores. It was so successful that from the Ming dynasty (1368-1644) onwards, a lot of qinpu 〔琴譜〕 (qin tablature collections) appeared, the most famous and useful being "Shenqi Mipu" (The Mysterious and Marvellous Tablature) compiled by Zhu Quan (朱勸), the 17th son of the founder of the Ming dynasty. In the 1960s, Zha Fuxi discovered more than 130 qinpu that contain well over 3360 pieces of written music. Many qinpu compiled before the Ming dynasty are now lost, and many pieces have remained unplayed for hundreds of years. 

Existing qinpu generally come from private collections or in public libraries throughout China, etc. Those that are available for public purchase are photographic copies printed and bound in the traditional Chinese bookbinding process. More modern qinpu tend to be bound in the normal Western way on modern paper. The format uses qin notation with staff notation and/or "jianpu" notation. 

Qin pieces are usually around three to eight minutes in length, with the longest being "Guangling San" 《廣陵散》, which is 22 minutes long. Other famous pieces include "Liu Shui" 《流水》 (Flowing Water), "Yangguan San Die" 《陽關三疊》 (Three Refrains on the Yang Pass Theme), "Meihua San Nong" 《梅花三弄》 (Three Variations on the Plum Blossom Theme), "Xiao Xiang Shui Yun" 《瀟湘水雲》 (Mist and Clouds over the Xiao and Xiang Rivers), and "Pingsha Luo Yan" 《平沙落雁》 (Wild Geese Descending on the Sandbank). The average player can generally play around ten pieces from memory which they will aim to play very well, learning new pieces as and when they feel like it. Players mainly learn popular well studied versions, often using a recording as a reference. In addition to learning to play established or ancient pieces very well, highly skilled qin players may also compose or improvise, although the player must be very good and extremely familiar with the instrument to be successful at it.

Dapu 〔打譜〕 is the conversion of old tablature into a playable form. This can be used to create new music as well as to reconstruct the ancient melodies. Since qin tablature does not indicate note value, tempo or rhythm, the player must work it out for him/herself. Normally, qin players will learn the rhythm of a piece through a teacher. They sit facing one another, with the student copying the master. The tablature will only be looked at if the teacher is not sure of how to play a certain part. Because of this, traditional qinpu do not indicate them. If one did not have a teacher, then one had to work out the rhythm by themselves. But it would be a mistake to say that qin music has no rhythm or melody. By the 20th century, there had been attempts to try to replace the shorthand notation, but so far, it has been unsuccessful; since the 20th century, qin music is generally printed with staff notation above the qin tablature. Because qin tablature is so useful, logical, easy, and the fastest way (once the performer knows how to read the notation) of learning a piece, it is invaluable to the qin player and cannot totally be replaced. There are two views of how to best use dapu: one is to use it to create new music, and the other is to use it to reconstruct the way the original music was played. 

According to tradition, the qin originally had five strings, representing the five elements of metal, wood, water, fire and earth. Later, in the Zhou dynasty, Zhou Wen Wang 周文王 added a sixth string to mourn his son, Bo Yihou 伯邑考. His successor, Zhou Wu Wang 周武王, added a seventh string to motivate his troops into battle with the Shang. The thirteen "hui" 『徽』 on the surface represent the 13 months of the year (the extra 13th is the 'leap month' in the lunar calendar). The surface board is round to represent Heaven and the bottom board flat to represent earth. The entire length of the qin (in Chinese measurements) is 3 feet, 6.5 inches, representing the 365 days of the year (though this is just a standard since qins can be shorter or longer depending on the period's measurement standard or the maker's preference). Each part of the qin has meaning, some more obvious, like "dragon pool" 『龍池』 and "phoenix pond" 『鳳沼』. 

The sound chamber of the qin is constructed with two boards of wood, typically of differing wood types. The slightly rounded top board (soundboard) is usually made of "tong" wood 『桐』, the Chinese parasol tree, or Chinese paulownia. The bottom board is made of "zi mu" 『梓木』 catalpa ("Catalpa ovata") or, more recently, "nan mu" 『楠木』 camphor wood ("Machilus nanmu"). The wood must be well aged, that is, the sap and moisture must be removed (of the top board wood). If sap remains then the sound will not be clear and, as the moisture evaporates, the wood will warp and crack. Some makers use old or ancient wood to construct qins because most of the sap and moisture has been removed naturally by time (old "shan mu" 『杉木』, Chinese Cunninghamia or Japanese Cryptomeria, is often used for creating modern qins). Some go to lengths to obtain extremely ancient wood, such as that from Han dynasty tomb structures or coffins. Although such wood is very dry, it is not necessarily the best since it may be infected with wood worm or be of a bad quality or type. Many modern qins made out of new "tong" wood (such as those made by Zeng Chengwei) can be better than the quality of antique qins. 

There are two sound holes in the bottom board, as the playing techniques of the qin employ the entire surface of the top board which is curved / humped. The inside of the top board is hollowed out to a degree. Inside the qin, there are 'nayin' 『納音』 sound absorbers, and a 'tian chu' 『天柱』 and 'di chu' 『地柱』 soundposts that connect the bottom board to the top. The boards are joined using bamboo nails. Lacquer 『漆』 from the Chinese lacquer tree ("Rhus vernicifera") is then applied to the surfaces of the qin, mixed with various types of powder, the most common being "lujiao shuang" 『鹿角霜』, the remains of deer antler after the glue has been eremoved. Often, ceramic powder is used instead of deer antler powder, but the quality is not as good. After the lacquer has dried (a qin will need several layers), the surface will be polished using oil stones. At the head end of the instrument is the "yue shan" 『岳山』 or bridge, and at the other end is the "long yin" 『龍齦』 (dragon's gums) or nut. There are 13 circular mother-of-pearl inlays which mark the harmonic positions, as well as a reference point to note position, called "hui" 『徽』 ("insignia"). 

Until the Cultural Revolution, the guqin's strings were always made of various thicknesses of twisted silk 『絲』, but since then most players use modern nylon-flatwound steel strings 『鋼絲』. This was partly due to the scarcity of high quality silk strings and partly due to the newer strings' greater durability and louder tone.

Silk strings are made by gathering a prescribed number of strands of silk thread, then twisting them tightly together. The twisted cord of strings is then wrapped around a frame and immersed in a vat of liquid of natural glue that binds the strands together. The strings are taken out and left to dry, before being cut into the appropriate length. The top thicker strings (i.e. strings one to four) are further wrapped in a thin silk thread, coiled around the core to make it smoother. 

Recently in China, production of very good quality silk strings has resumed and more players are beginning to use them. Although most contemporary players use nylon-wrapped metal strings, some argue that nylon-wrapped metal strings cannot replace silk strings for their refinement of tone. Furthermore, it is the case that nylon-wrapped metal strings can cause damage to the wood of old qins. Many traditionalists feel that the sound of the fingers of the left hand sliding on the strings to be a distinctive feature of qin music. The modern nylon-wrapped metal strings were very smooth in the past, but are now slightly modified in order to capture these sliding sounds.

To string a qin, one traditionally had to tie a butterfly knot ("shengtou jie" 『蠅頭結』) at one end of the string, and slip the string through the twisted cord ("rongkou" 『絨剅』) which goes into holes at the head of the qin and then out the bottom through the tuning pegs ("zhen" 『軫』). The string is dragged over the bridge ("yueshan" 『岳山』), across the surface board, over the nut ("longyin" 『龍齦』 dragon gums) to the back of the qin, where the end is wrapped around two legs ("fengzu" 『鳳足』 "phoenix feet" or "yanzu" 『雁足』 "geese feet"). Afterwards, the strings are fine tuned using the tuning pegs. The most common tuning, "zheng diao" 〈正調〉, is pentatonic: 1245612 in the traditional Chinese number system or "jianpu" 〔簡譜〕. Today this is generally interpreted to mean C D F G A c d , but this should be considered do re fa so la do re, since historically the qin was not tuned to absolute pitch. In fact the same tuning can also be considered as 5612356 when the third string is played as do. Thus, except when accompanied by other instruments, only the pitch relations between the seven strings needs to be accurate. Other tunings are achieved by adjusting the tension of the strings using the tuning pegs at the head end. Thus "manjiao diao" 〈慢角調〉 (slackened third string) gives 1235612 and "ruibin diao" 〈蕤賔調〉 (raised fifth string) gives 1245712, which is transposed to 2356123. 

The guqin is nearly always used a solo single instrument, as its quietness of tone means that it cannot be heard over the sounds of most other instruments or an ensemble. It can, however, be played together with a "xiao" (end-blown bamboo flute), with other qin, or played while singing. In old times, the "se" (a long zither with movable bridges and 25 strings, similar to the Japanese koto) was frequently used in duets with the qin. 

In order for an instrument to accompany the qin, its sound must be mellow and not overwhelm the qin. Thus, the "xiao" generally used for this purpose is one pitched in the key of F, known as "qin xiao", which is narrower than an ordinary "xiao". If one sings to qin songs (which is rare nowadays) then one should not sing in an operatic or folk style as is common in China, but rather in a very low pitched and deep way; and the range in which one should sing should not exceed one and a half octaves. The style of singing is similar to that used to recite Tang poetry. To enjoy qin songs, one must learn to become accustomed to the strange style some players may sing their songs to.

Traditionally, the qin was played in a quiet studio or room by oneself, or with a few friends; or played outdoors in places of outstanding natural beauty. Nowadays, many qin players perform at concerts in large concert halls, almost always, out of necessity, using electronic pickups or microphones to amplify the sound. Many qin players attend yaji (『雅集』 literally "elegant gatherings"), at which a number of qin players, music lovers, or anyone with an interest in Chinese culture can come along to discuss and play the qin.

Chinese books on qin:


English books on qin:


Qin society sites

General Qin sites

Other specialist Qin sites

Sites with music samples


</doc>
<doc id="23828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23828" title="Ripuarian">
Ripuarian

Ripuarian has several meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="23837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23837" title="Category:Invertebrates">
Category:Invertebrates


</doc>
<doc id="23841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23841" title="Vandal">
Vandal

Vandal can mean several things:


</doc>
<doc id="23842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23842" title="São Paulo (state)">
São Paulo (state)

São Paulo (Portuguese: Saint Paul) is a state in the Southeast Region of Brazil. Its capital city is called São Paulo too.

São Paulo is located in the south-east region of Brazil, with close to 248,000 square kilometers of area. (For comparison, Oregon State in the United States of America has 251,000 square miles). 

It borders the state of Minas Gerais to the north, the state of Rio de Janeiro and the Atlantic Ocean to the east, the state of Paraná to the south and state of Mato Grosso do Sul to the west. 

The capital of São Paulo is the city of São Paulo.

São Paulo is the state in Brazil with the highest economical output. 

It has the second highest per capita income of Brazil, second only to the Federal District, where Brasilia is located. 

With the states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul it shares the highest standard of living in Brazil, despite of pockets of blight poverty in its largest cities.

The robust economy of São Paulo is based in industrial production, to include automobile and aviation, agriculture, services and tourism.

São Paulo is the Brazilian state with the largest population and also is the most ethnically diverse. 

Portuguese, Italian, Spanish, Arab, Asian and other descents chose São Paulo as their home, due to its thriving economy. 

Also migrants from other Brazilian states (especially from the Northeast Region) come to São Paulo in search of a better life. Because there are not enough jobs, these people usually want to back to their states.

São Paulo is the state in Brazil with the largest and most efficient transportation system. 

The city of São Paulo relies on undergound train and also suburban at-grade rail systems. City buses complement the public transportation system. 

Air traffic is the busiest of all Brazil.

Harbors along the state's ocean front receive and ship a great share of Brazil's export and import goods.

São Paulo is a vibrant place when it comes to sports. Football (soccer) is king but the state has human resources and facilities to produce some of the best athletes in the world in many other fields. 

The state has many professional soccer clubs but also volleyball has found a niche here. 

Auto racing is a staple of the paulista's way of life. The state has produced several racing drivers that have attained international fame.

São Paulo, Campinas, Guarulhos, Osasco, Ribeirão Preto, Santo André, Santos, São Bernardo do Campo, São Carlos, São José dos Campos and Sorocaba.



</doc>
<doc id="23848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23848" title="Category:Argentina">
Category:Argentina

Argentina is a country in South America.


</doc>
<doc id="23853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23853" title="Trolley">
Trolley

A trolley is a small vehicle with wheels that can carry things. People can push trolleys.

There are different kind of trolleys. There are shopping trolleys which are used in supermarkets and other large stores with self-service. In American English these are called shopping carriages or shopping carts. Customers can put things they want to buy in the trolley and then pay for everything at the checkout. Usually they are then allowed to wheel the trolley with the things they have bought out to their car.

Sometimes the customers have to pay a small deposit when collecting a trolley. The trolleys are chained together. The customer puts in a coin (in Britain a £1 coin) which he can have back again when he parks the trolley back in the trolley chain.

Trolleys are used in airports and some large railway stations for passengers to carry their luggage.

A trolley can also be a tea-trolley. This is a small trolley used traditionally in the house for plates, cups, saucers and sandwiches and cakes for afternoon tea. Tea-trolleys are also used in hospitals and offices to take cups of tea and coffee to people.

In American English "trolley" can be used to mean a tram (or streetcar). This is not to be confused with a trolleybus which is a bus which uses electricity from an overhead cable (like a tram).

When someone says "He is off his trolley" it means that he is crazy.


</doc>
<doc id="23865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23865" title="Abuse">
Abuse

Abuse is a term used for the "use" or "treatment" of something which causes hurt. Abuse is generally done by another life form. For example, animal abuse is normally done on animals, by humans. Drug or alcohol abuse is the misuse (especially overuse) of drugs or alcohol.


</doc>
<doc id="23874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23874" title="Mutant (Marvel)">
Mutant (Marvel)

A mutant is a type of fictional character in a fictional universe created by Marvel Comics. In this world, mutants can be either heroes or villains. A mutant is someone who has different DNA than its parents. These mutations often lead to superpowers. They may also cause physical changes such as wings, blue skin, or a tail.

Mutants were created in the Marvel Universe in the 1960s with the comic book "The X-Men". It was a way for them to tell stories that dealt with racism. Racism, hatred and fear of mutants are an important part of their history . Two main teams of mutants have been around since the 1960's: The X-Men (heroes) and the Brotherhood of Mutants (villains).

Sometime a human is born with a certain kind of DNA change. This "x-gene" is passed to their children. This genetic change may not create any noticeable difference. It could pass for generations without anyone knowing about it. 

Mutants may be born to human or mutant parents, though the odds of a mutant birth are much better for the latter. Likewise, it is rare but possible for mutant parents to have human children, termed "baseline" by characters within the Marvel Universe. Some baseline humans are genetically predisposed towards having mutant descendants such as the Guthrie family (see Cannonball, Husk, and Icarus). Mutant children born to mutant parent(s) will not necessarily have the same power(s) as their parent(s), nor will they necessarily have the same power(s) as any mutant siblings they may have; however, examples of children with the same power(s) as their parents and/or siblings are not uncommon. 

There is, however, a chance that mutants may not even be able to reproduce a child at all. The Hayes (Runaways), telepathic mutant doctors, were unsure their mutant heritage could even produce a child; it did, however, take them several years to finally have a child: Molly Hayes.

Marvel's mutants are classified by their level of power.







The X-Men were created in the 1960s during a time of civil unrest in the United States. The characters allowed the writer to write stories that showed racism and bigotry without singling out a specific minority.

By classifying Mutants as they did, they also created different aspects of racism. Some mutants are easily recognized by how they look (similar to African-Americans). Some have a few physical characteristics that can make them get notices (Similar to Jews). Other mutants blend in so well that it nearly impossible to tell they are a mutant unless they use their powers (Similar to homosexuals)

In the Marvel universe normal people often hate and fear mutants. This is because they think mutants may make normal humans extinct. They fear what they do not understand. They are jealous of them having superpowers. Bigotry and xenophobia are also reasons for hatred of mutants. In the Marvel universe, anti-mutant feeling has led to the separation of mutants from society. It has led to mob violence and government sponsored tries to fight mutants.

The X-Men books have been written as typical superhero comic books. They have epic adventures and battles with super villains. Yet, the idea of mutants as a metaphor for real world minorities who face oppression is shown throughout the series. Some examples:




</doc>
<doc id="23884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23884" title="Urethra">
Urethra

The urethra is a tube that connects the bladder to the outside of the body. It allows people and animals to remove urine from the body. People and animals control urination using the urethral sphincter.

The urethra is part of the urinary system in mammals. Because humans are mammals, they have urethras. In male mammals, the urethra is also a part of the reproductive system, because males use it as a tube for sperm during sex.

In human anatomy, men have longer urethras then women. This means that women have bladder infections more often, because their bladders are closer to the outside. Because the male urethra is longer and is not straight, inserting a catheter (tube to help urination) is more difficult in men.

In women, the urethra is 2.5-4 cm (1-1.5 in) long. Its opening to the outside of the body is part of the vulva (the area between a woman's legs). The female urethra is between the clitoris and the opening to the vagina. In men, the urethra is about 20 cm (8 in) long and its opening to the outside of the body is at the end of the penis.

The male urethra has three sections:




</doc>
<doc id="23889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23889" title="Stanislav Lem">
Stanislav Lem

Stanislaw Lem() (September 12, 1921 - March 27, 2006) was a Polish science fiction writer. His writings are highly philosophical and satirical. His books have been translated into 41 languages. Over 27 million copies of his books have been sold worldwide. At one point he was among the most widely read science fiction authors in the world. Lem's writing is full of intelligent humor, puns, and neologisms, and Michael Kandel's translations into English have been praised by many for capturing Lem's style.

Lem is perhaps best known for his novel "Solaris". This novel was published in 1961. It is set into the future. Humans have discovered what they think is intelligent life in space. They want to talk to the alien life form. The only problem they have is that the life form is the size of a planet. It is an ocean. This book has also been made into a film by Andrei Tarkowski in 1972. Steven Soderbergh made another film of the book in 2002.

Lem won various prizes for his novels.


</doc>
<doc id="23890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23890" title="Hostage">
Hostage

A hostage is a person who is held captive against his or her will. Hostages are often taken (held captive) to force someone else to do something for their "captors" (the people who took them hostage). Hostages are taken for many different reasons. 



</doc>
<doc id="23895" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23895" title="Intel">
Intel

Intel Corporation (Integrated Electronics Corporation) is a microprocessor company that was set up in the 1960s. Different types of processors made by Intel were used in most computers. Their most famous older products are the 386, 486, and Pentium models. Their main product now is called the Core i7 processor. Many people use Core 2 processor in their computer - it says "Intel Inside." Intel makes many different products, and has just switched to dual core, 64 bit processor in 2006. The first Pentium chips were released on March 22, 1993.



</doc>
<doc id="23898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23898" title="Nintendo Entertainment System">
Nintendo Entertainment System

The Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) is the first video game console made by Nintendo in the United States. It came out in 1985 in the United States and was very popular.

The controller for the NES was different from the joysticks that older consoles had. It had a D-pad button, that could go up, down, left, or right. It also had A, B, Select, and Start buttons. The NES could use use up to two controllers for multiplayer games. There were also other types of controllers that could be used with the NES.

Some games for the NES are Super Mario Bros., The Legend of Zelda, Metroid, Mega Man, Castlevania, Donkey Kong, and Final Fantasy. There have been many sequels made to these games and they are still enjoyed today. Nintendo discontinued the NES in 1995


</doc>
<doc id="23902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23902" title="System of a Down">
System of a Down

System of a Down is an American metal band. They started in 1995 in Los Angeles, California by four members of Armenian descent, Serj Tankian (lead singer, born August 21, 1967), Daron Malakian (lead guitar, singer, born July 18, 1975), Shavo Odadjian (bass, background singer, born April 22, 1974) and Andy Khachaturian (but was replaced with John Dolmayan). He played the drums.

The band have five albums:

The band became successful with popular songs like "Sugar", "Spiders", "Chop Suey!", "Toxicity", "Aerials", "B.Y.O.B.", "Question!", "Hypnotize", and "Lonely Day".

After the release of "Mezmerize"/"Hypnotize", System of a Down went on a break, but they say they have not broken up.

Often described as very angry, Khachaturian was unhappy about his place as drummer, and wanted to lead the band. He left the band and the drummer from the band, "Friik", John Dolmayan, joined the the band.

Serj, Daron, and Shavo, went to the same school, Alex Pilibos School for Armenian Americans in Los Angeles, when they were young. 

In 1995, they made their first demo tape, and had the songs: "Suite-Pee", "Sugar", "Dam", and "P.L.U.C.K.(Politically Lying Unholy Cowardly Killers)". In 1996, another demo tape was released with the songs: Soil, and two songs that were not on the first album, "Honey" and "Temper". They made another demo tape, and this was the one that got them put on the record label. The producer, Rick Rubin, had tried to sign up the band several times before they agreed. Serj now tours on his own, under his own name, with his own band.

In 1997, SOAD teamed up with Rubin and produced their first studio album in 1997, "System of a Down". This album was not as popular as the next album, but it made people aware of who and what System of a Down stood for.

Their next album, "Toxicity", made in 2001, had their first UK top 20 single "Chop Suey". This album explores a more melodic side of metal music. It is also political; for example the opening track: "Prison Song" which has Serj speaking the lines "Minor drug offenders fill your prisons you don't even flinch/All our taxes paying for your wars against the new non rich". 

2003's album was made up of songs recorded for "Toxicity" but not used because they did not fit the "mood" of the album. These songs included "Innervision" and "Boom!". 

In May 2005, the band released part one of a double album, "Mezmerize". More melodic than before, it included "B.Y.O.B" (Bring Your Own Bombs), and "Lost in Hollywood"; a song based on Daron's childhood about growing up in Hollywood, which he did not think was all that glamorous.

Months later, the second part of the double album, "Hypnotize", was released. This was the same sort of style as they were recorded at the same time.

In 2006, the band decided that they were going to go on break for a little while. They said they were going to come back together in a few years. After 10 years together, they each wanted to do different things for a while. Theyve been rumors of them returning in 2011. In July 2010 Dolmayan said in an interview that the band will most likely tour in 2011.



</doc>
<doc id="23903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23903" title="Belarusian language">
Belarusian language

Belarusian (belarusion: Беларуская мова, transliteration: Biełaruskaja mova) is a eastern slavic language. This language is a part of the indo-European language family. It is spoken in Belarus and eastern Poland (in the area of Białystok). It is also spoken by Belarusians who live in other countries of Europe, Australia, and North America.

When writing Belarusian, people can use Cyrillic or Latin alphabet.


</doc>
<doc id="23904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23904" title="Kevin Bacon">
Kevin Bacon

Kevin Norwood Bacon (born July 8, 1958 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American movie actor who has starred in "Stir of Echoes", "Wild Things", "JFK", and "Apollo 13", among others. He has been married to actress Kyra Sedgwick since September 3, 1988. They have two children, Travis and Sosie Ruth.



</doc>
<doc id="23905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23905" title="Kyra Sedgwick">
Kyra Sedgwick

Kyra Sedgwick (b. August 19, 1965 C.E.) is an American actress who was born in New York City, New York to a father of English descent and a Jewish mother. She is the great-granddaughter of Endicott Peabody, the founder of Groton School. She is married to actor Kevin Bacon.


</doc>
<doc id="23906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23906" title="Treaty of Versailles">
Treaty of Versailles

The Treaty of Versailles was a treaty to make peace between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria and the United States after World War I. The treaty was made in 1919, but German government did not participate in it. In fact, Germany had the choice between signing it or face the occupation of Germany by Allied troops. This was known as a diktat. The French made the Treaty unfavorable for the Germans so that Germany would not be able to start a new war. Thus Germany had to reduce its armed forces from 6 million to 100,000 men, and was forced to get rid of its submarines, military aircraft and a lot of their artillery, such as cannons. Their Navy were also forced to limit the amount of battleships they owned to only six. Germany also had to give back those French territories it had occupied, as well as large territories of its own to Poland, for instance, and all its colonies. A heavy economical burden for Germany was to pay back a great sum for the damage done to the Allied countries, mostly France, during World War I by German troops. This sum was not fixed. 132 billion goldmarks had to be paid only as a first part of the German debts. They only finished paying off this debt in 2010. This Treaty can be seen as a one-sided peace diktat for Germany, a treaty which later was used as a reason for Germany's nationalists and Adolf Hitler to try to get the support of the Germans to get rid of the "chains of Versailles," which finally led to World War II.

One of the parts of the treaty was that there would be a League of Nations, which decided things after the treaty was signed. It could not stop World War II, but it was very helpful in the earlier years.

Germany had to give back French parts (Alsace-Lorraine) taken by Germany in the Franco-Prussian War, which Germany had won and was an embarrassment for France. The French made Germany take its troops out of the Rhineland (the long stretch of land on Germany's border with France where the Rhine river flows), which was an important part of land for Germany where many factories and businesses existed. If Germany put troops back into the Rhineland the punishment would be France invading Germany.

Germany also had to give many parts to Poland, a new country made out of old Russian and Austrian parts and the Polish and Lithuanian people who lived in them. Poland was a very strong kingdom a few hundred years before but Austria, Prussia and Russia had split it between them. This made the Polish people unhappy, and they were given a country again.

Belgium was given Moresnet and Eupen and Malmedy. This is the main reason that Belgium now has a German-speaking Community.

Versailles also split up many large empires on the losing side. The U.S. President, Woodrow Wilson, thought this was a very good idea because many people in Europe wanted to be free from the big empires. But it also created problems.

Austria-Hungary was split into many countries. One was Austria. Austria was meant to be the homeland of the Austrians, who spoke German and mainly ruled Austria-Hungary. Its capital was Vienna. One of the problems of Versailles was that many Germans, like Adolf Hitler, thought that Austria was meant to be part of Germany and would occupy it later on.

The new country of Hungary was also created. Like Poland, it was a country that was strong on its own centuries before, but then it merged into one with Austria which made a very big empire. Its capital was Budapest. Another country, Czechoslovakia was created, which was meant to be the homeland of the Czechs and Slovaks. The Czech part was made up of the country once called Bohemia and Moravia. Its capital was Prague. There were many Germans living on its borders, which was why Germany would later on think should belong to them.

Bosnia, Slovenia, Croatia (which were parts of Austria-Hungary), northern Macedonia (which was part of Bulgaria), Serbia and Montenegro made one country, called Yugoslavia. It was made to be a Slav homeland, but there were many religious, language and national differences.

New countries by the Baltic Sea called Estonia, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania were created. During the war, the Russian people had a revolution which later resulted in the death of Emperor Czar Nicholas II and the formation of a Communist state. A civil war raged in Russia between the anti-Communist White Russians and pro-Soviet Red Russians. The Soviet Union had lost control of its western territory which made up Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and parts of Poland. Later during the Second World War, Russia reclaimed Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, and took half of Poland which they shared with Germany.

Italy gained parts of Austria.

It was agreed in another treaty called the Treaty of Sèvres that Greece would take parts of Western Turkey (called Ionia) and its past most important city, Constantinople from Turkey. Greece took them at first but a new Turkish army drove the Greeks out, killing many Greek people. Greece did gain most of the islands in the Aegean Sea from Turkey and parts of Bulgaria.

The League of Nations decided that parts of old Turkey were given to France and Great Britain to protect and keep peace in the area. Britain ruled Palestine, Iraq and Transjordan, which would become Israel, Iraq, and Jordan. France ruled Syria and Lebanon.

A big problem for Germany was to pay back a giant amount of money for the all of the damage done to the Allied countries, mostly France, during World War I. This made Germany one of the poorest countries in Europe for almost 20 years, and caused political fighting in Germany.Germany officially finished paying off its debt on Sunday, October 3, 2010. The two most important parties, the Communists (who wanted a Communist revolution as had happened in Russia) and the Nazis (who thought Germany should become the most powerful country in Europe) fought for many years.

The debt to the Allies was made easier for the Germans during the Great Depression, and all debt was cancelled in 1932. Many Germans hated the treaty and some even wanted to fight more after Versailles. 

The League of Nations created after Versailles was usually not powerful enough to stop wars, either. Japan took a part of China called Manchuria and the League was not able to stop it. Italy invaded Ethiopia and although the Ethiopian Emperor begged the League to help him, it did not. Germany, Japan and Italy became the Axis powers, and by invading many peaceful countries caused World War II. The United States and the USSR did not even join the League, even though it was the idea of US President Woodrow Wilson in the first place. The League was never taken seriously, even though it was created to make sure Versailles was respected. 
The treaty failed to keep peace in the end, and was a reason for Nazi Germany and Adolf Hitler to win the support of the poorer Germans to get rid of the "chains of Versailles", leading to World War II.


</doc>
<doc id="23941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23941" title="Saint Pierre and Miquelon">
Saint Pierre and Miquelon

Saint-Pierre and Miquelon (French "Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon") is a French overseas collectivity. It is made up of several small islands. Those islands are near the eastern coast of Canada. They are close to Newfoundland. It is the only thing left of the former colonial territory of New France.



</doc>
<doc id="23942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23942" title="Template:Coor dm">
Template:Coor dm

°′ °′

</doc>
<doc id="23945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23945" title="50 (number)">
50 (number)

Fifty is the integer that is after forty-nine and before fifty-one.

The prime factors of fifty are 2, 5, and 5. (2 * 5 * 5 = 50) The factors of 50 are 1, 2, 5, 10, 25, and 50. 5*10=50. 50 is the smallest number that can be written as the sum of two squares in two distinct ways: 50=1+7=5+5. Also, 50 is one-half of 100 or half of a century (a century is 100 years).


</doc>
<doc id="23946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23946" title="Rzeszów">
Rzeszów

Rzeszów (Ukrainian: Ряшiв, Latin: Resovia) is city in the south-east part of Poland with a population of 170,722 (2008). The city is located on the river Wislok. 


</doc>
<doc id="23947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23947" title="1604">
1604



</doc>
<doc id="23948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23948" title="Houston">
Houston

Houston is a large city in the United States. It is in the state of Texas. It is the fourth largest city in the U.S. The mayor of Houston is Annise Parker. Over two million people live in Houston. It is named after Sam Houston, who fought for Texas freedom in 1836. It is well known for containing the main headquarters of NASA.

The George Bush Intercontinental Airport is the main airport serving Houston.

Houston has many sports teams. The Astros play baseball. The Rockets play basketball. The Texans play American Football.


</doc>
<doc id="23949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23949" title="1138">
1138



</doc>
<doc id="23950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23950" title="1140s">
1140s



</doc>
<doc id="23951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23951" title="Polynesian people">
Polynesian people

Polynesians are native people from islands in Polynesia, including Hawaii, Tahiti, Samoa, and Maoris in New Zealand.



</doc>
<doc id="23965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23965" title="Colonialism">
Colonialism

Colonialism occurs when a country (nation) takes control of other lands, regions, or territories outside of its borders (boundaries of the country) by turning those other lands, regions, or territories into a colony. Usually, it is a more powerful, richer country that takes control of a smaller, less powerful region or territory. Sometimes the word "imperialism" is also used to refer to colonialism.

In the 1700s and 1800s, many of the richer, more powerful European] countries (such as Britain, France, Spain, and the Netherlands) established colonies in the continents of Africa, South America, and the Caribbean.

Some countries use colonialism to get more land for their people to live in. When countries are using colonialism to get more land for their people to live in, the country will help settlers move to the new region or territory. The local people living in the land or territories were usually moved away by using force and violence from armies. To protect these settlers from the local residents who were pushed aside, colonial nations often set up a military fort or colonial police system. 

Other countries use colonialism to get more land so that they can use the land for farming or to extract (take out) resources such as trees (wood), coal, or metals. or creating a local government or military fort 

Other countries use colonialism so that they can get workers from the poorer country to work in factories or farms (either in the richer country, or in the poorer country). In the past, powerful countries that were colonizing poorer countries or regions often forced the people from the poorer countries to work as slaves. 

The Phoenicians the Ancient Greeks expanded their territories by using colonialism. Ancient Greece was not a country. It was made of many cities. Each city was a country of its own, with a government in place. Some city-states were monarchies, others elected (part of) the people who governed by (part of) the people who were citizens of that city, and who lived there. This is called democracy.

Those cities also fought wars against each other and traded goods. To get more blow jobs influence, or to secure a trade route, the city would send people called settlers to a new place. These people would then make a new city called a colony . The cities had to pay some form of taxes to the old city, in exchange for protection, for example.

If the settlers found a local tribe living in the new territory, they would wage war against it to force them to leave. The local tribe was usually made into slaves. The new colony would exploit the land it found, by growing crops or by raising cattle.

There are several different types of colonialism. Some countries that expanded their territory used Settler colonies. Some countries that started out as settler colonies include the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Argentina. In all of these countries, people from European countries moved to the new region, and forced the local people )(the indigenous peoples, such as Indians, Maori, etc.) to move. When the local people or tribes had to move, it caused a lot of problems.

In some regions which were colonized, the settlers married the local people and had children with them. An example is Mexico, where a new people called the mestizos came from the marriages of the settlers and the local tribes. In other regions which were colonized, the settlers and the local people lived in separate areas, without living together or marrying. An example of this situation is French Algeria (when France colonized the African country of Algeria) or Southern Rhodesia. 

Another type of colonialism is when a powerful country sets up (establishes) dependencies. With a dependency, the colonizing country does not send over thousands of settlers to the new territory. Indstead, the colonizing country sets up administrators (a governing organization) that controls the existing local (native) populations or tribes. Examples include the British Raj,(geraldine) in which the British government controlled India; the Dutch East Indies, in which the Netherlands controlled parts of the East Indies; and the Japanese colonial empire, in which Japan controlled Asian territories.

With the plantation colony, the powerful, rich country use the poorer country's land to grow crops. The local people are forced to become slaves and work on the farms. Examples of plantation colonies include Barbados, Saint-Domingue and Jamaica. 

Another type of colony is the trading post colony. Rich and powerful countries set up trading post colonies so that there would be a territory where trading, selling, and business could be conducted. The rich and powerful countries usually set up military forts or police forces to enforce the rules and laws of the colonizing country. Examples of trading colonies include Macau, Malacca, Deshima and Singapore.

In the 1




</doc>
<doc id="23966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23966" title="Hey Arnold!">
Hey Arnold!

Hey Arnold! was an American animated television show on the Nickelodeon network. It was about a boy with a football-shaped head named Arnold, a bully, or mean girl named Helga who loved him, and their lives in Hillwood, a made up great town in the north like New York City, Chicago, or Seattle. Episodes of "Hey Arnold!" lasted for about 23 minutes each. Later on, Nickelodeon made a movie from it.


</doc>
<doc id="23968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23968" title="Diego Maradona">
Diego Maradona

Diego Maradona (born 30 October 1960 in Lanús, Buenos Aires) is a former Argentine football player. He was nicknamed "El Diez", "Pelusa", "El Diego" and "El pibe de oro", He won the World Cup in Mexico in the year of 1986. 

He is regarded as one of the best footballers of all time.

240||150||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||240||150
62||27||12||7||7||8||81||42
188||81||54||29||25||5||267||115
490||258||66||36||32||13||588||307

!Total||91||34


</doc>
<doc id="23970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23970" title="José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero">
José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero

José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero (born 4 August 1960 in Valladolid) is the President of the Government of Spain. His party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE), won the general election on 14 March 2004. He succeeded Jose Maria Aznar. Important actions of his government have included withdrawing Spanish troops from Iraq, legalizing same-sex marriages and negotiating with Basque terrorist group ETA. 



</doc>
<doc id="23976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23976" title="Electric guitar">
Electric guitar

The Electric guitar is a type of musical instrument. It was made in 1931 by George Beauchamp. It is a string instrument usually played with a pick and sometimes with the fingers. It uses things called "electric pickups" which are wire-wound magnets that change the vibration of the strings into electric current. This electric current is then sent to an amplifier that changed it to sound. This electric current can also be changed to produce effects.

The main parts of an electric guitar are the neck, the pickups, the tuners, the bridge, the input, the body, the frets, the pick guard, the volume knobs and the tone knobs. There may also be other parts that can change other sounds. A normal electric guitar has one neck with 6 strings on it, although there are 12 string guitars (which produce a unique sound) and guitars with more than one neck. 

Guitars are made and sold in many parts of the world by many companies. They can be hand made or factory made/mass produced. Some of the most popular companies that make electric guitars are Fender, Gibson and Ibanez. Usually, when people start playing guitar, it is a good idea to buy from a known company.


Many guitarists today share their music through a system called tablature (commonly known as 'tab'). Tablature is a way of reading notes for a guitar. It is much simpler than musical notes, but most tabs do not support rhythm. Many tabs can be found online or in books and magazines.

To read guitar tab, generally there is a staff like this:

Each line represents a string. Tab is always read as if the player were holding the guitar on their lap, strings facing up. Each number then represents what fret the finger is placed on.

E -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
B -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
G --1-------------1-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
D ----2-----------2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A ------2---------2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
E -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The above diagram would be to play an open E chord, picking each string individually, and then strumming the chord. If the notes are stacked directly above each other, it means to strum the chord.

Some guitar music is written in both musical note format and tablature. The musical notes are written out, with the corresponding tablature under each line of notes.


</doc>
<doc id="23979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23979" title="Louise Brooks">
Louise Brooks

Louise Brooks (Cherryvale, Kansas, 14 November 1906 – Rochester, New York, 8 August 1985) was an American dancer and actress. She became a leading film star, and a style icon famous for her beauty and her bobbed hair style. 

In 2006, the centenary of Brooks' birth was celebrated by the release of three DVDs and three books, museum exhibits, screenings, and other events.

Brooks' signature film role was as Lulu in G.W. Pabst's "Pandora's Box" ("Die Büchse der Pandora") in 1929. Brooks' portrayal was of a young woman whose raw sexuality and uninhibited nature brings ruin to herself and those who love her. It made the actress a star.







</doc>
<doc id="23982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23982" title="Bangor, Maine">
Bangor, Maine

Bangor is the 3rd-largest city in Maine. In 2000, the city had 31,473 people.


</doc>
<doc id="23984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23984" title="Portland">
Portland

Portland can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="24005" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24005" title="Ben Bradshaw">
Ben Bradshaw

Benjamin Peter James Bradshaw (born 30 August 1960) is an English politician and the Member of Parliament for the Exeter constituency in the United Kingdom. He was elected in the 1997 general election.

He was a Minister of State in the Department of Health, a Minister for the South West and Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, but holds no posts in the current shadow government.

He was one of the first openly gay MPs.

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="24014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24014" title="Eschelbronn">
Eschelbronn

Eschelbronn is a village with 2597 people living there. It is in the Rhein-Neckar area of Baden-Württemberg, Germany and close to Sinsheim.

Eschelbronn is in the north of Kraichgau with a distance of about 25 km to Heidelberg.

It was already mentioned in the years 788/789 in a document of the monastery of Lorsch. Afterwards there was no documentation until the end of the 13th century when it became part of the restrict of Speyer.
The first mayor was Heinrich von Eschelbrunnen in the year 1261. In 1267 a castle made of wood was built and later rebuilt into a water-castle of stone in 1375. In 1526 the village became Protestant.
In 1803 Eschelbronn became part of Baden. From 1807 on the village was administrated by Waibstadt and 1803 by Sinsheim until the 31st of December 1972. Today it belongs to the Rhein-Neckar area.

In former times most of the people were farmers, however later in the 18th century the production of textiles became more and more important. Since the end of the 19th century Eschelbronn is well known for its furniture production.



</doc>
<doc id="24021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24021" title="Order of the Bath">
Order of the Bath

The Most Honourable Order of the Bath is a British order of chivalry. It was founded by George I on 18 May 1725. The name comes from an old ceremony, first mentioned in 1128. In the ceremony, men participated in a vigil of fasting, prayer, and taking a bath. They did this on the day before they were made a knight. The ceremony was abolished in 1815. 

The Order consists of the Sovereign (the British Sovereign), the Great Master (HRH The Prince of Wales), and three classes of members:

Originally founded as a military order of chivalry, the star (or pip) is worn as army officers' rank insignia. The insignia is that of the Order of the Bath. Members of the order now belong to either the Civil or the Military Division. The Order's motto is "Tria iuncta in uno" (Latin for "Three joined in one"). This is a reference to either the union of England, Scotland and Ireland, or to the Holy Trinity. A symbol of the Order that is seen over and over has three crowns in it. Another motto, "Ich dien" (German for "I serve") is used occasionally, but only by members of the Order who serve in the military.

The Order is the fourth oldest of the British Orders of Chivalry, after The Most Noble Order of the Garter, The Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle, and The Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick. The last of those Orders—which relates to Ireland, no longer a part of the United Kingdom—still exists, but is no longer active; no appointments have been made to it since 1934.


</doc>
<doc id="24028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24028" title="Kurdish people">
Kurdish people

The Kurds are an ethnic group found in Iraq, Iran, Syria, Armenia, Turkey and Lebanon. They have no country of their own. Kurds are indo-European settlers together with the people of Western and northwestern Iran, widely thought to be descended from the Medes . They speak Kurdish.

The Kurds have similarly distinct features as those of south Europe, however their looks are not single based ranging from blondes to brunettes and although mainly brown eyes can have multi-coloured colours. they have a rich culture which is their own and despite the long struggle by its neighbouring enemies to demolish it: it remains a strong influence in their way of life. Today, there are around to 27 to 37.5 million Kurds. Most are Muslim.


</doc>
<doc id="24031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24031" title="Guerrilla warfare">
Guerrilla warfare

A guerrilla is a civilian who attacks a regular Army. When civilians attack civilians it is usually called terrorism. When two or more armies (representing countries) attack each other this is a war. 

Guerrilla warfare is a war tactic when people () using the land and geography as an advantage against an organized army. Guerrilla warfare is sometimes practiced from dense areas such as forests, or jungles. Usually this army is invading a territory.

Guerrilla is a word of Spanish origin. It means "little war".


</doc>
<doc id="24041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24041" title="Sacrament">
Sacrament

In Christianity, a sacrament is a special rite. It is a visible token of the reality of god.

The Roman Catholic Church knows seven such sacraments. These are

Following Martin Luthers tradition, many Protestant churches only see Baptism and Eucharist as Sacraments. They also have most of the other rites, but do not consider them to be sacraments
Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Churches basically have the same views as the Roman Catholic Church. They say however, that many things the church does (as church), can be seen as sacraments, in some way.


</doc>
<doc id="24049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24049" title="St. Petersburg, Florida">
St. Petersburg, Florida

St. Petersburg (shortened to St. Pete by the area residents) is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is the county seat of Pinellas County. It is home to the MLB team Tampa Bay Rays.


</doc>
<doc id="24055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24055" title="20 (number)">
20 (number)

Twenty is the number that is after nineteen and before twenty-one.

The prime factors of twenty are 2, 2, and 5. (2 * 2 * 5 = 20)

Its factors are: 1, 2, 4, 5 and 10. As the sum of its factors is more than itself (ie 22), it can be referred to as an abundant number.

20 can been used as a number base. Remnants of this system remain in some European languages, for example in the English “score” (20) and the French “quatre vingts” (80, literally four groups of twenty). The old (pre-decimal) English monetary system enjoyed twenty shillings in a pound. The ancient Mayan numerical system – counting on fingers and toes – was a base 20 or "vigesimal" system.

A polyhedron of 20 faces is an icosahedron, one of the five Platonic solids. It is a convex regular polyhedron composed of twenty triangular faces, with five meeting at each of the twelve vertices. It has 30 edges and 12 vertices. Its dual polyhedron is the dodecahedron.

In Japanese tradition, adulthood is established at the age of 20. See seijin not hi (the celebration of adulthood in Japan). 

It is the number of milk teeth in a infant’s mouth.

In Roman numerals, 20 is written as XX.


</doc>
<doc id="24057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24057" title="40 (number)">
40 (number)

Forty is the number that is after thirty-nine and before forty-one.

The prime factors of forty are 2, 2, 2, and 5. (2 * 2 * 2 * 5 = 40)

In the Judeo-Christian Bible, the number forty has special meaning. The Jews wandered in a desert for forty years, there was a forty day and forty night rainstorm, and other instances.


</doc>
<doc id="24058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24058" title="70 (number)">
70 (number)

Seventy is the number that is after sixty-nine and before seventy-one.

The prime factors of seventy are 2, 5, and 7. (2 * 5 * 7 = 70)


</doc>
<doc id="24060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24060" title="Gas giant">
Gas giant

A gas giant is a large planet that has a solid core, but a very thick atmosphere. This means that most of the planet is made up of gas. These planets are very large.

In our Solar System, there are 4 gas giants: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune.

Jupiter and Saturn are similar because they are made up of mostly hydrogen and helium. They both contain massive rocky cores that are bigger than Earth. Neptune and Uranus are similar because they are mainly made up of water and rock (a mixture of one or several minerals).


</doc>
<doc id="24065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24065" title="North Vietnam">
North Vietnam

The Democratic Republic of Vietnam (DRVN), or less commonly, Vietnamese Democratic Republic (Vietnamese: "Việt Nam Dân Chủ Cộng Hòa"), also known as North Vietnam, is a former country that existed from 1954 until 1976. It was located in the north of present-day Vietnam. It lay north of the local Demilitarized Zone, and South Vietnam lay to the south of it.

It was proclaimed by President Hồ Chí Minh in Hà Nội on September 2, 1945. It was the first socialist country in Southeast Asia. However, it was not recognised by China and the Soviet Union until 1950. It was also a part of the Vietnam War.


</doc>
<doc id="24068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24068" title="Set theory">
Set theory

Set theory is the study of sets in mathematics. Sets are collections of objects. We refer to these objects as "elements" or "members" of the set.

The reason why set theory was made is that collections of objects can cause problems if you work with them without explaining them better. It was made by people like Georg Cantor and Bertrand Russell.

Set theory begins by giving some examples of things that are sets. Then it gives rules in which you can make other sets from the already known sets. Collections of objects that are not sets are called classes. It is possible to do mathematics using only sets, rather than classes, so that the problems that classes cause in mathematics do not occur.


A binary relation between two sets is the subset relation, also called "set inclusion". If all the members of set are also members of set , then is a "subset" of , marking . For example, is a subset of , but is not. From this example, it is clear that a set is a subset of itself. In cases where one wishes to not to have this, the term "proper subset" is meant not to have this possibility.

The selfconsidering object in the set theory was existing too, an example numbers: 1={1}, 2={1, 2}, 3={1, 2, 3} and so on.



</doc>
<doc id="24069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24069" title="Bangor">
Bangor

Bangor is a city name found in several countries.










</doc>
<doc id="24079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24079" title="Demo (music)">
Demo (music)

A demo, in music, is the first version of a song or album.

It can also refer to an album made by the band as a "sample" in hopes of getting a contract with a record label.


</doc>
<doc id="24087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24087" title="Breton language">
Breton language

Breton ("Brezhoneg", in Breton) is a Celtic language spoken in Brittany, in the north-west of France. Breton is closely related to the Cornish language of Cornwall spoken in south-west Great Britain. It is less closely related to the Goidelic languages of Scotland, Ireland and the Isle of Man. The Breton language has approximately 240,000 speakers.


</doc>
<doc id="24088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24088" title="Celtic languages">
Celtic languages

The Celtic languages are a language family inside of the Indo-European languages. There are six Celtic languages still spoken in the world today, spoken in north-west Europe. They are divided into two groups, the Goidelic (or Gaelic) and the Brythonic (or British). 

The three Goidelic languages still spoken are Irish, Scottish, and Manx. Scottish is the main language spoken in parts of north-west Scotland and Irish is the main language spoken in the Gaeltacht in Ireland. Manx is spoken mainly by people interested in the language.

The three Brythonic languages are Welsh, Cornish, and Breton. Of these Cornish became extinct in the 18th century but people have started speaking it again now. Welsh is spoken everywhere throughout Wales, but is mainly the first language for people in the western part of Wales, in the area some people call the Bro Gymraeg. Breton is spoken mainly in west Brittany. Breton is the only Celtic language not mainly spoken in the British Isles. 

Scottish Gaelic also has a native community of speakers in Canada where it was once very widely spoken, and there are Welsh speakers in Patagonia, Argentina.





</doc>
<doc id="24091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24091" title="Salem, Tamil Nadu">
Salem, Tamil Nadu

Salem is a district and major city in Tamil Nadu, in India. It is known for its steel plants, factories which make steel.

Salem online yellow pages Directory


</doc>
<doc id="24096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24096" title="Hunger strike">
Hunger strike

A hunger strike is a way that people protest by not eating. Many people have used this method so that leaders will notice them, and maybe do what the protesters want them to do.

Sometimes, hunger strikes are done by people who are in prison. In this case, the hunger strikes are sometimes ended by force feeding, when the prisoners are fed against their will through a feeding tube.


</doc>
<doc id="24099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24099" title="Hermitage Museum">
Hermitage Museum

The Hermitage Museum (Эрмитаж) in St. Petersburg, Russia is one of the largest and oldest art galleries and museums of human history and culture in the world. The vast Hermitage collections are displayed in six buildings, founded by Catherine II of Russia in 1764 and opened in public since 1852. The main building is the Winter Palace. This was the official residence of the Russian Tsars. 

Strong points of the Hermitage collection of Western art include Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, Rubens, Van Dyck, Rembrandt, Poussin, Claude Lorraine, Watteau, Tiepolo, Canaletto, Canova, Rodin, Monet, Pissarro, Renoir, Cézanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Picasso, and Matisse. There are several more collections. Among the collections are the Russian imperial regalia, an assortment of Faberge jewellery, and the largest existing collection of ancient gold from Eastern Europe and Western Asia.


</doc>
<doc id="24103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24103" title="Dirt">
Dirt

Dirt may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="24104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24104" title="Template:Hover">
Template:Hover


</doc>
<doc id="24106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24106" title="Boeing 747">
Boeing 747

The Boeing 747 is a jumbo jet airplane from Boeing. It is mostly used by people who are traveling across countries, or across oceans (For example, from New York City to London or Los Angeles to Tokyo). It is sometimes called Jumbo Jet because it is very large and is able to carry a lot of people. 524 people can fit on a 747.

Boeing built it in 1969 and was first commercially used in 1970. It is a double decker plane, and is one of several Boeing jets that fly overseas.

These airlines have Boeing 747s:

Japan Airlines (60) 

British Airways (57)
Korean Air (42) 

Cathay Pacific (37) 

Air France (32) 

United Airlines (30)

Lufthansa (30)


</doc>
<doc id="24108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24108" title="1081">
1081


</doc>
<doc id="24109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24109" title="Richard Trevithick">
Richard Trevithick

Richard Trevithick (April 13,1771 - April 22, 1833) was a Cornish inventor and engineer. He is best known for making the first working steam locomotive.


</doc>
<doc id="24110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24110" title="Wasilla, Alaska">
Wasilla, Alaska

Wasilla is a small city in the U.S. state of Alaska, about 43 miles from Anchorage. It is one of the ten largest cities in Alaska. Sarah Palin was once mayor and owns a house with her family there.



</doc>
<doc id="24111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24111" title="Rantoul, Illinois">
Rantoul, Illinois

Rantoul is a village in Champaign County, Illinois, United States. Almost 13,000 people were living in Rantoul as of 2000. Rantoul has an area of 7.4 square miles.


</doc>
<doc id="24112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24112" title="Winter Springs, Florida">
Winter Springs, Florida

Winter Springs is a city in Florida. It is sometimes considered a suburb of Orlando.


</doc>
<doc id="24113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24113" title="Fredericton, New Brunswick">
Fredericton, New Brunswick

Frederiction is the capital city of New Brunswick, Canada.


</doc>
<doc id="24115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24115" title="Clearwater, Florida">
Clearwater, Florida

Clearwater is a city in Florida, it is in the Tampa Bay area.

The first Hooters restaurant opened here in 1984. The Church of Scientology's international headquarters is also in the city.


</doc>
<doc id="24119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24119" title="Template:Vandal">
Template:Vandal


</doc>
<doc id="24125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24125" title="Jordanhill railway station">
Jordanhill railway station

Jordanhill railway station is in a suburb of Glasgow, Scotland. It is a station where passenger trains stop on the First ScotRail railway line. The station opened on August 1, 1887 as part of a different railway line.

On March 2, 2006, a new article on the Jordanhill railway station became English Wikipedia's one-millionth article.


</doc>
<doc id="24137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24137" title="Googolplex">
Googolplex

A googolplex is the number 10(10). A googolplex can not be written down. This is because there are not enough atoms in the universe to use to write it down on. In fact, it would take a trillion times more atoms to write down a googolplex.

Google named their headquarters, Googleplex, after the googolplex.


</doc>
<doc id="24141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24141" title="Flint">
Flint

Flint, or flintstone, is a kind of sedimentary rock, made of silica. 

Bands of flint are found in chalk, which is an Upper Cretaceous rock laid down in the continental shelves of a tropical sea.

When the chalk is eroded, the hard flint nodules survive as pebbles on a shingle beach. It may happen that the pebbles later get cemented into another rock, such as a puddingstone. In this way, they make up a sedimentary rock for the second time.

Flint is a cryptocrystalline (means you can't see the crystals) form of the mineral quartz. It is a variety of chert. It occurs as a line of knobbly masses in chalk and some limestones. Inside the nodule, flint is usually translucent, and can be various colours. A thin layer on the outside of the nodules is usually different in colour, typically white and rough in texture.

Flintstones often have a rough lumpy surface but when they are broken, they look like dull grease-coloured glass. It has been one of the most useful types of stone to humankind.

Flint was often used in prehistoric times to make stone tools. Flint handaxes were used by early man for about two million years. When flintstones are broken, they have a sharp edge which could be used as a knife, or a scraper. 

When two flintstones are hit together, they can make a spark. For many centuries, flint was one of the main ways for people in many countries to make fire. People would carry a little box called a "tinder box" which had some flintstones and tinder. The tinder was used to catch the spark and start a fire. Tinder could be sawdust, cloth, grass or bark. Flints were used to make a spark to fire a gun. A gun that used flint was called a "flint-lock" gun.

Flintstones are used in some countries for building. In England the flintstones used for building were often "knapped" which means they were broken to show the inside. This made a nicer finish on the building that the dull knobbly stones wouldn't have made. 



</doc>
<doc id="24145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24145" title="MediaWiki:Captcha-createaccount">
MediaWiki:Captcha-createaccount

To protect against spam robots, you need to type the exact words seen below, or answer the math problem correctly, to get your username account. 

</doc>
<doc id="24146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24146" title="MediaWiki:Captchahelp-text">
MediaWiki:Captchahelp-text

Web sites that accept postings from the public, like this wiki, are often abused by spammers who use automated tools to post their links to many sites. While these spam links can be removed, they are a nuisance.

Because of this, when making a new account, and sometimes also when adding new website links to a page, you may be shown an image of colored or twisted text, of or a simple number question, and be asked to type the words, or answer the question. Since it is harder for a robot to see an image, it will let most real humans make accounts and post links, while stopping spam robots from doing this.

Unfortunately, this may be hard for users with limited vision, who may be using text-based or speech-based browsers. Right now, we do not have a way to do this with audio. Please contact the site administrators for help if this is causing you any problem.

If you can't see any image, you may need to enable cookies in your computer's browser.

Hit the 'back' button on your browser to return.

</doc>
<doc id="24147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24147" title="Valley Center, California">
Valley Center, California

Valley Center is a suburb of in San Diego County, California.


</doc>
<doc id="24148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24148" title="Newbridge, County Kildare">
Newbridge, County Kildare

Newbridge (Droichead Nua in Gaelic) is a town in County Kildare, Republic of Ireland. It is the second largest town in Kildare


</doc>
<doc id="24149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24149" title="Anaheim, California">
Anaheim, California

Anaheim is a city in the United States. It was founded by German immigrants in 1857. It is the home of Disneyland, and two professional sports teams, The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim (Baseball) and the Anaheim Ducks (ice hockey).


</doc>
<doc id="24150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150" title="Chair">
Chair

A chair is a piece of furniture. It is used for sitting on . They usually have four legs to support the weight. Some types of chairs, such as the barstool, have only one leg in the center. Those chairs are usually able to spin. Sometimes chairs have armrests. There are many types of chairs such as Windsor chairs and rocking chairs. There is another type of chair called a sofa or settee . This is often used for more than one person and comfortable .


</doc>
<doc id="24151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24151" title="1163">
1163


</doc>
<doc id="24153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24153" title="Hercules">
Hercules

Hercules is a hero in Roman mythology. He is a mortal son of Jupiter. Hercules is known for his great strength. In Greek mythology he is named Herakles, but he has some different stories.

In one of the more well known stories of Hercules, he had to complete twelve tasks. These tasks were: 

Hercules is also a character in Marvel Comics. He was an ally of the mighty Thor. He is the leader and a founding member of the super team the Champions. He was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby in 1962.


</doc>
<doc id="24154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24154" title="Navigation">
Navigation

Navigation is how ships or aircraft find their way from one place to another. The word navigation came from the word ""navgatih"" from the language of Sanskrit. The Latin language word "navis" means ship; navigation is literally "art of ship mastery". The word is also used as a metaphor for 'finding one's way'.

One type of navigation was made by the Polynesians and is called Polynesian Navigation. They used different things found all around us to find their way from place to place. For example:


Likewise, the Scandinavians developed a skill of following the stars in the night at sea. The Scandinavian seafarers, Vikings, knew that the star called Polaris does not change location and points to the north. They knew that the north was where Polaris was. They would then know the latitude by measuring the angle between Polaris and the horizon. They also used animals, especially birds, to know if land was nearby, and they knew that specific kind of clouds form near land and that waves are different near land than at high seas.

As time went by better methods of navigation were invented or discovered. Some of which are:


Compass was first invented in China. It was later invented in France in 12th century.






Navigation can also be used to talk about traffic. For example "The channel will be open to navigation when the bridge has be opened". 

Words that mean the same thing as navigation are: Sailing, Seafaring, Pilotage, Piloting


</doc>
<doc id="24155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24155" title="Hercules (1997 movie)">
Hercules (1997 movie)

Hercules is an animated Disney movie. It is based on the Greek legend of Hercules, but it is very different than the original story. It was more like Superman, Rocky and The Karate Kid. Unlike most Disney movies, it had a very different style due to the fact that the British cartoonist Gerald Scarfe, (who designed the movie "Pink Floyd The Wall") helped make the movie.


</doc>
<doc id="24157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24157" title="The Karate Kid">
The Karate Kid

The Karate Kid is a 1984 American movie starring Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita. It tells the story of a boy named Daniel (Macchio) who moves with his mother from New Jersey to California. Daniel has trouble adjusting and soon gets in trouble with a gang of bullies at his school. Mr. Miyagi (Morita), the handyman from the apartment building Daniel lives in, teaches Daniel martial arts, so he can fight the bullies in a . The movie was very successful and was compared to the boxing movie "Rocky", it was followed by three sequels.


</doc>
<doc id="24159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24159" title="533">
533


</doc>
<doc id="24161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24161" title="Crazy Horse">
Crazy Horse

Crazy Horse (born about 1838 – died September 5, 1877) was an Oglala Sioux Native American chief. There is a huge sculpture being carved of him in South Dakota, United States. 

When Crazy Horse was first born he was given the name 'Curly'. When he was young, he had a vision when he was not supposed to and his family did not know where he was. His father found him and was very unhappy at what young Curly had done.
As Crazy Horse grew into a man, he was given his father's name Crazy Horse. His father then changed his own name to Worm. 

Crazy Horse had good medicine, so he was never killed when he went into battle. He led his people to the Little Bighorn river in northern Montana to join forces with other Sioux bands like the Hunkpapa and Miniconjou, and with other tribes like the Cheyennes and Arapahos. There they fought General George Armstrong Custer, killing and defeating him and his many horsemen.

Eventually Crazy Horse made a tough decision to lead his people, the Oglalas, to a reservation because they were starving. Game was scarce and the bison (buffalo) were nearly gone. He had no choice but to leave the Black Hills. When he arrived at Fort Robinson, he was forced to give up his weapons and horses. This made him very unhappy. One day, even though he was granted time to go on a hunt, he was lied to and, trying to get away, he was stabbed in his liver and died later that night, thus ending the Great Sioux War.

"Once I moved about like the wind. Now I surrender to you and that is all"
Quote by Geronimo, Chief of the Apaches .

The Sioux Royal Family, the House of Thasunke Witko, are descendants of Crazy Horse. A queen, Queen Wakiyan, was elected Queen of the Kingdom of Lakota (in Sioux, "Oglala Oyanke") and of the Oglala Sioux, and tried to improve the economy at the Pine Ridge Reservation with creativity and imagination, and to bring the Sioux forward into modern times;however, a conspiracy of jealous chieftains who were both male chauvinists opposed to having a female leader and also a corrupt group of men jealous of their own power and who prefer to preside over the poverty of the Sioux People, ruthlessly trumped up false allegations in order to depose this good queen.

According to Frederick Hoxie's 'Encyclopedia of North American Indians' Crazy Horse was the third in his male line of descent to bear the name of Crazy Horse, which in Oglala is Tasunke Witko. Tasunke Witko III was the son of Rattling Blanket Woman and Tasunke Witko II. He married three times: 1st to Black Buffalo Woman, 2nd to Black Shawl, and 3rd to Nellie Larrabee (Laravie). Only his second wife, Black Shawl, bore him any children: a daughter named They Are Afraid of Her, who died aged three.


</doc>
<doc id="24162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24162" title="1185">
1185



</doc>
<doc id="24163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24163" title="1377">
1377


</doc>
<doc id="24164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24164" title="He-Man and the Masters of the Universe">
He-Man and the Masters of the Universe

He-Man and the Masters of the Universe was a cartoon series, that first came out in 1983. It was based on a popular toy line and told the story of Adam, who was prince of the planet, Eternia. Prince Adam had a magic sword that could turn him into He-Man, the most powerful man in the universe. He-Man along with, Battle Cat, Teela, Man-At-Arms, and Orko, fought Skeletor, who wanted to take over the universe. It was very popular and inspired 2 more shows, one made in the early 1990s and another in 2002, there was also a spin-off, called "", which was about He-Man's sister.


</doc>
<doc id="24165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24165" title="Fantasia Barrino">
Fantasia Barrino

Fantasia Barrino (born June 30, 1984) is an American singer. She was the winner of the third season on "American Idol". These days her singing takes a back seat. She works as a journalist for several property magazines.


</doc>
<doc id="24174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24174" title="Cabrillo Beach">
Cabrillo Beach

Cabrillo Beach is a historic beach located in San Pedro, California. 
Cabrillo has two separate beach areas

Los Angeles City and Los Angeles County Lifeguards are responsible for the beach and ocean safety in and around the Cabrillo Beach area. 

Cabrillo Beach is located next to the Los Angeles Harbor and is only a short boat ride away from Catalina Island.

Cabrillo Beach is a popular destination for those interested in water sports, such as windsurfing, kayaking and SCUBA diving. 
Cabrillo Beach is known by windsurfers as "Hurricane Gulch" because of its predictably strong winds.

It is also home to a few famous landmarks, namely the 1.75 mile Los Angeles Breakwater which ends at the Angeles Gate Lighthouse, the recently restored Cabrillo Beach Bathhouse, and the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium. The Angels Gate Lighthouse is home to the annual Angel's Gate Lighthouse Swim competition, held by Lifeguards and San Pedro residents each summer.


</doc>
<doc id="24176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24176" title="Chulalongkorn University">
Chulalongkorn University

Chulalongkorn University (Thai: จุฬาลงกรณ์มหาวิทยาลัย) is the oldest university in Thailand. It is located in Bangkok (the capital city of Thailand). It was founded in 1917. Currently, there are about 30,000 students. The name of the university comes from the name of one of the kings of Thailand, Chulalongkorn (Rama V).

Education

Chulalongkorn University begins the term include Science and Technology, Applied science, Social Science, Humanities. In 2006, begins the term with 492 normal courses including 118 Bachelor's Degrees, 217 Master's Degrees, 93 Doctor's Degrees and 64 others. There are 70 courses of international and English. The course that them teach are :

Graduate college

Faculty of Architecture 

Faculty of Pharmacology 

Faculty of Veterinary Science 

Faculty of Medicine

Faculty of Dentistry 

Faculty of Psychology

Faculty of Science

Faculty of Engineering

Faculty of Allied Health Science

Faculty of Nursing 

Faculty of Law

Faculty of Political Science

Faculty of Commerce and Accountancy

Faculty of Economics

Faculty of Information Science

Faculty of Appiled Arts

Faculty of Arts

School of sport science 

and others

Living in University

Normally, this university spends 4 years for studying the same as other universitys but Faculty of Education, Faculty of Architecture, and Faculty of Pharmacology spends 5 years for studying. While Faculty of Veterinary Science, Faculty of Medicine, and Faculty of Dentistry spends 6 years.

Symbol

Phra Kyo


</doc>
<doc id="24184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24184" title="Khartoum">
Khartoum

Khartoum is the capital of Sudan. This big city has over three million people, and is located where the Blue Nile and main Nile come together. Its name means elephant tusk. Two other big cities nearby are Omdurman and Khartoum North.


</doc>
<doc id="24188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24188" title="Konkani language">
Konkani language

Konkani is a language from India. Konkani belongs to Indo-Aryan family of languages. It is the official language of Goa, a state in India. 

Some people from the part of India known as Konkan speak Konkani language. Konkan is on the west coast of India. 

The name "Konkani" means "from the Konkan". The word "Konkan" means corner(kona) and piece/part of earth (kana). The name of the language comes from the place where it is spoken.

The people who speak Konkani language are called as Konkani people or Konkanis.

People write Konkani in many different scripts(writing systems or alphabets). People from different regions use different scripts. Konkani people from Goa and Maharashtra use Devanagari script. Konkani people from Karnataka use Kannada script. People in Goa use Roman script. Konkani Muslims use Arabic script. Konkani people from Kerala use Malayalam script . Devanagari is the official script.


</doc>
<doc id="24191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24191" title="Trench">
Trench

A trench is a long, narrow ditch. It is like a valley, only on a very much smaller scale.
It was used in World War I it was supposed to be a short term barrier but many trenches started to be made so soldiers would be safer.

The following kinds exist:


The trench coat got its name from there. 


</doc>
<doc id="24194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24194" title="Trench coat">
Trench coat

A trench coat (or trenchcoat) is a type of outdoor clothing. Trenchcoats are long coats made from stiff material, like heavy-duty cotton. They were invented for soldiers to wear in The First World War to keep them warm. Most trench coats also protect the wearer against rain.

In the 1950s, trench coats became a popular fashion item. In the 1980s and 1990s, trench coats were worn by punk rock musicians and gothic rock musicians. 


</doc>
<doc id="24195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24195" title="Trumpet">
Trumpet

A trumpet is a brass instrument used mainly in Classical music and jazz music. The most common type of trumpet is a B"b" trumpet, meaning that if the player plays a C, it will sound like a B"b" in concert pitch. The trumpet is played by blowing into the mouthpiece and making a "buzzing" sound. There are three keys called valves that the player can press to change the pitch.

The trumpet has been around for about 3000 years. An early example of a brass instrument like a trumpet is called a shofar, which is still used in religious ceremonies. Eventually people started making trumpet-like instruments with wood (for example, the cornetto), and later, with brass.

Many years ago, when the use of instrumental music was growing, trumpets became very important. Trumpets were long and without valves. This meant a player had to control the pitch of the sound with only his mouth, which was very difficult. Everyone respected trumpet players because trumpets were just so difficult to play.

The chromatic trumpet was developed in the late 18th century. Later on, valves were developed, and it became easier to play notes on the trumpet. Still, trumpet is a difficult instrument to master.

Classical music is written for solo trumpet, and trumpets are included in orchestras. Trumpets play an important part in Jazz music, and other various popular genres. Sometimes, they also play short parts to emphasize sections in rock songs.

Some famous classical trumpet players are Adolph Herseth, Sergei Nakariakov and Maurice Andre.

Some famous jazz trumpet players are Miles Davis, Louis Armstrong, Arturo Sandoval, Wynton Marsalis, Dizzy Gillepsie, and Maynard Ferguson.



</doc>
<doc id="24196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24196" title="Microwave">
Microwave

A microwave is a kind of high-frequency radio wave. It is often used to cook food in a microwave oven.

We can see waves travelling through water. There are many sorts of these waves, such as ripples, swell, tsunamis, and even sound waves that we do not see, but we hear if our ears are under the water. 

Likewise, many different types of waves can travel through the air. We detect one type with our eyes as colours; we detect another type when it lands on our skin, as warmth; another type is called X-rays. Other types of these invisible waves are called microwaves. 

We cannot see them. They can quickly penetrate quite deep into materials that contain water, for example most food. The energy in these waves makes the water molecules vibrate faster, which means the water gets hotter. 

Although they can also heat some metals, there are materials, including many plastics, which they pass right through, without heating at all. Although many plastics used in bowls or cups will melt and get super-heated in microwave ovens.



</doc>
<doc id="24198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24198" title="Microwave oven">
Microwave oven

A microwave oven (commonly called a microwave) is a machine that cooks food using microwaves, a type of radio wave. The idea was discovered when a scientist who was experimenting with radio waves saw his chocolate bar, which he was holding at that time, melt. He then knew that radio waves could cook food and invented the microwave oven. 

Food is placed inside the oven, and buttons on the screen are pressed to set how long the food should be cooked. A microwave oven is one of the fastest ways of cooking.

The microwave oven uses a magnetron. This is similar to a radio transmitter. It makes very short radio waves which go right into the food to a depth of about 2.5cm. This makes water molecules swing to and fro at about 2.5 billion times a second. This heats up the molecules around it. As they heat up the heat goes to the inside of the food. This process is called conduction. This also happens in a normal oven, but the energy goes deeper so that the food cooks much faster. In an ordinary oven the energy stays mostly near the surface




</doc>
<doc id="24200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24200" title="Cobalt">
Cobalt

Cobalt (chemical symbol Co) is a chemical element. It has an atomic number of 27 and an atomic mass of about 59. It is a metal.

Cobalt is a transition metal. It is shiny and conducts electricity. It is magnetic. It is a hard metal. It is moderately reactive. Iron is more reactive and copper is less reactive. It dissolves slowly in acids. This reaction makes hydrogen and a salt of cobalt. Cobalt is normally in its +2 oxidation state as an ion. Some chemical compounds contain cobalt ions in its +4 oxidation state. Cobalt(II) chloride is one of the most common cobalt compounds. Many cobalt compounds are blue or pink. One of them is black.

Cobalt is too reactive to occur pure in the earth. It is found in certain minerals. It is found with copper and nickel deposits. Normally the three metals are bonded to arsenic and sulfur. It is found as a byproduct (left over substance) when copper and nickel are produced. It is made by reaction with the sludge from copper and nickel processing.

Cobalt is used in some types of steel. It hardens the steel. It is also used to make very strong tough alloys. These alloys are known as superalloys. Some cobalt compounds are used in the lithium-ion battery. Cobalt compounds were used as an artificial food coloring until 1971. It was discovered that it has harmful effects. It is used to make glass blue. It is also used as a catalyst. It is also used in some medicines.

The human body needs small amounts of cobalt for certain vitamins. Cobalt compounds are used to stop cyanide from poisoning the body.

Cobalt compounds are needed in small amounts, but they are toxic in large quantities. Sometimes cobalt compounds were added to beer and poisoned people that drank it. It can make skin irritation when touched.


</doc>
<doc id="24201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24201" title="Category:Nonmetals">
Category:Nonmetals


</doc>
<doc id="24206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24206" title="Canidae">
Canidae

Canidae is a family of carnivorous and omnivorous mammals of the order Carnivora. Animals that belong to the family Canidae are called canids. The family Canidae is divided into two tribes: Vulpini ("true foxes"), and Canini ("true dogs").
Canids of the tribe Vulpini (foxes) are called "vulpines". Canids of the tribe Canini (wolves, dogs, coyotes and others) are called "canines". Some people call all these canids "canines", but this is wrong.

Examples of canids are dogs, wolves, foxes, coyotes, and jackals.




</doc>
<doc id="24207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24207" title="Nickel">
Nickel

Nickel (chemical symbol Ni) is a chemical element. It has an atomic number of 28 and an atomic mass of about 59. It has 28 protons. It is a transition metal. 

Nickel is a silver-white metal. It is a little golden colored. It is easily polished (made shiny). It is magnetic. It is not magnetic when heated above . It is not soft like many other metals. It can be stretched into wires easily. It is not radioactive.
Nickel is not a reactive metal. It dissolves slowly in acids. It does not rust like iron. It makes a thin coating of nickel(II) oxide which stops more corrosion. Aluminium does a similar thing. 
Nickel is in several oxidation states. +2 [Nickel(II)]is the most common. +3 [Nickel(III)] also is common. Nickel in its +2 oxidation state is green. Nickel(II) chloride is a common +2 oxidation state compound. Nickel(II) oxide is normally dark green, but sometimes it is gray. This is because some of the nickel is in the +3 oxidation state (nickel(III). Nickel(III) compounds are oxidizing agents. They also are grayish. Nickel compounds can be green, blue, gray, or black.

Nickel is not normally found as a metal in the ground. Sometimes meteorites have nickel and iron metal in them. Normally nickel is in minerals. Nickel hydroxides, sulfides, and silicates are common ores. Russia makes the most nickel.

Nickel was found when a copper-colored ore did not make copper metal. Later it was found out that the ore was actually a nickel ore. Nickel was isolated as a metal in 1751. At first, the copper colored nickel ore was the only source. Later, it was made as a byproduct of cobalt blue making.

Nickel is made from sulfide ores. They are heated to melt them and concentrate them. They are also separated by oils. Nickel is made from its sulfide by heating it in air. This oxidizes the sulfide to sulfur dioxide, leaving liquid nickel behind. This nickel is not pure. Only about 75% of it is nickel.

Nickel can be made purer. It can react with carbon monoxide to make nickel carbonyl, a gas when warm. All the impurities are left behind. The nickel carbonyl is blown into nickel pellets, where it coats the pellets with pure nickel and puts out carbon monoxide. The carbon monoxide is reused (used again). 

Another way to make the nickel pure is by dissolving it in an acid. Then it is electrolyzed to make nickel at the cathode.

Nickel is used in metal alloys. Stainless steel contains nickel. Nickel is also used in nichrome, a name for a nickel-chromium alloy. Nickel is used in coins such as nickels. It is used in magnets. Nickel is used in special expensive alloys called superalloys.

It is used in rechargeable batteries. They are also used to electroplate nickel on items. Nickel and some of its compounds are also used as a catalyst. 

Nickel can irritate skin. That is why nickel jewelry is bad for some people. Some nickel salts are carcinogens. Nickel is not as toxic as other metals such as lead or mercury but it is still toxic.



</doc>
<doc id="24208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24208" title="Fox">
Fox

A fox is a small mammal. There are 27 species of fox. Foxes are carnivores: they hunt and eat live prey, mostly rabbits and rodents (rats and mice). They may also eat grasshoppers, birds' eggs, and even fruit and berries. Sometimes they eat carrion. 

Foxes are the smallest members of the family Canidae. Canidae are mammals which are related to dogs. They are swift and agile runners, and live in family groups. A female fox is called a "vixen". Foxes' plump bushy tail is easily visible. A fox can use its tail for sending signals to its family members. Part of the tail's function is to store fat for lean times. 

Foxes are found throughout all continents (except Antarctica), inhabiting mostly forest, shrub land, and desert regions. They were not native to Australia, but were introduced in some way. In the United Kingdom, it was a common sport for people to hunt foxes with horses and dogs. This is now banned.


</doc>
<doc id="24213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24213" title="Food pyramid">
Food pyramid

A food pyramid is a chart that can be used to see how many servings of each food should be eaten each day. It is for having good health.

Grains give carbohydrates and some vitamins and minerals. Vegetables and fruits give a lot of vitamins, some minerals, and few fats, but fruits often have more calories and sugar. Dairy products (like milk, cheese, yogurt, etc.) have protein, some fat, and a lot of calcium, an element that helps build strong bones. Meat have protein, some fat, and B vitamins. Fats, oils, and sweets give calories, fats, and sugars but not a lot of nutrition.



</doc>
<doc id="24215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24215" title="Torso">
Torso

The torso is the part of the human body where the limbs are attached. Some people also call it the trunk. It is made of chest, back, and abdomen.



</doc>
<doc id="24216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24216" title="Trunk">
Trunk

Trunk may be:




</doc>
<doc id="24218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24218" title="Age of Mythology">
Age of Mythology

Age of Mythology is a real-time strategy computer game made by Ensemble Studios. The game has an expansion to it named "". "Age of Mythology" is a spinoff of the "Age of Empires" game series.



</doc>
<doc id="24219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24219" title="Mississauga, Ontario">
Mississauga, Ontario

Mississauga, Ontario is the sixth-largest city in Canada. It is near the largest city in Canada, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. In fact, it is a part of the Greater Toronto Area. 


Mississauga is a quickly growing and multicultural city. Statistics Canada estimates that Mississauga now has 704,000 people, an increase of 150,000 from the previous decade and the population has almost doubled in the past twenty years.

Mississauga has only had three mayors in its past and it was created in 1974. This is because the mayor right now, Hazel McCallion, 86, has been mayor from 1978.

Mayors 
Dr. Martin L. Dobkin 1974-1976 
Ron A. Searle 1976-1978 
Hazel McCallion 1978-Now 

Council
Mississauga is split into 11 wards (parts) each of them having their own councillor.

Ward 1 Carmen Carbasson
Ward 2 Patricia Mullin
Ward 3 Maja Prentice
Ward 4 Frank Dale
Ward 5 Eve Adams
Ward 6 Carolyn Parrish
Ward 7 Nando Iannica
Ward 8 Katie Mahoney
Ward 9 Pat Saito
Ward 10 Sue McFadden
Ward 11 George Carlson

Also, Mississauga is the largest city in Canada where there are more women in the council than men. 

Federal and Provincial Ridings
Mississauga has six legislative (government) ridings that are the same for the Canadian government and the Ontario government. The Canadian government has people in charge of those ridings called M.P.'s (Member of Parliament) and the Ontario government has M.P.P.'s (Member of Provincial Parliament) in charge of them.

Bramalea-Gore-Malton
M.P.: Gurbax Malhi (Liberal)
M.P.P.: Kuldip Kular (Liberal)

Mississauga-Erindale
M.P.: Bob Dechert (Conservative) 
M.P.P.: Harinder Takhar (Liberal)

Mississauga-Brampton South
M.P.: Navdeep Bains (Liberal)
M.P.P: Amrit Mangat (Liberal)

Mississauga East-Cooksville
M.P.: Albina Guarnieri (Liberal)
M.P.P.: Peter Fonseca (Liberal)

Mississauga South
M.P.: Paul Szabo (Liberal)
M.P.P.: Charles Sousa (Liberal)

Mississauga-Streetsville
M.P.: Bonnie Crombie (Liberal)
M.P.P.: Bob Delaney (Liberal)


</doc>
<doc id="24220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24220" title="Cambridge, Massachusetts">
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Cambridge is a city in the U.S. state of Massachusetts, just outside of Boston. It is the home of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).

The second Wikimania was hosted in this city in 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="24221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24221" title="1280s">
1280s



</doc>
<doc id="24222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24222" title="1087">
1087


</doc>
<doc id="24223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24223" title="1672">
1672




</doc>
<doc id="24224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24224" title="1684">
1684

Year 1684 was a leap year that started on Saturday when using the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="24225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24225" title="1713">
1713


</doc>
<doc id="24226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24226" title="1743">
1743


</doc>
<doc id="24227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24227" title="Coyote">
Coyote

Coyote ("Canis latrans") is an animal of the Canidae family. The word "coyote" comes from the Náhuatl (Aztec) word cóyotl.

The color of the coyote's fur is a grayish brown to yellowish gray on the upper parts, while the throat and underside are a more white color. The forelegs, sides of the head, muzzle and feet are reddish brown.

Coyotes live only in North America and some areas of Central America. They live in the countryside, but also in cities too. The coyote is found though out North American from California up to as far as Alaska. They normally live in dens about 6 feet wide and four feet tall.

The coyote is an omnivore and can eat many kinds of food: fruits, grasses, and vegetables in the autumn and winter months along with small mammals, for example rabbits, mice, shrews, voles, and foxes. They also eat birds, deer, snakes, and lizards. In the city, coyotes find food easily. They dig up plants in gardens and eat food out of garbage cans. 

Sometimes, they join small packs (groups), but normally hunt alone. Coyotes live in dens. They dig a tunnel under the ground and then dig out a larger area at the end of the tunnel where they sleep and have their babies or pups. They can have six pups at a time. Often a coyote den will have two entrances, with one that is hidden. Sometimes they dig more than one den, so they can move if an enemy finds the den.

Coyotes do not have many enemies. Wolves used to eat coyotes, but there are not many wolves left in North America compared to the number of coyotes. The biggest enemy of the coyote is people. They do not usually attack people, but sometimes eat small pets such as cats.

The coyote is a character of many myths from Native American peoples. The coyote is often protrayed as a joker, and stories are told to explain things he does. For example, why he barks at the moon.


</doc>
<doc id="24229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24229" title="Vole">
Vole

Vole is a small mammal similar to a mouse. 

There are about 70 species of voles. There are species in Europe, Asia, North Africa and North America. Adult voles, depending on the species, are 7.5 to 17.5 centimetres (three to seven inches) long. 

Depending on the species, they eat seeds, grass or other plants, and insects.

Many animals hunt voles, for example wolves, owls, hawks, coyotes, foxes, weasels, and cats.


</doc>
<doc id="24230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24230" title="Isthmus">
Isthmus

An isthmus is a narrow strip of land, with water on either side, that connects two bigger landmasses. For example, the Isthmus of Panama connects the continents of The Americas (but some people say it has not been a true isthmus since the Panama Canal was built).


</doc>
<doc id="24244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24244" title="Rodent">
Rodent

Rodents are a group of mammals. They form the order Rodentia (row-den-she-a). 

They have four incisors that keep growing, and must be kept worn down by gnawing (eroding teeth by grinding them on something hard); this is the origin of the name, from the Latin "rodere", "to gnaw", and "dent", "tooth".

Most rodents are small. Examples of commonly known rodents are mice, rats, chipmunks, and squirrels. Some other small rodents sometimes kept as pets are Guinea pigs, hamsters, and gerbils.

Examples of larger rodents are porcupines, beavers, and the largest living rodent, the capybara, which can grow to between 105 and 135 cm (40-55 in) in length, and weigh 35 to 65 kg (75-140 lbs).

Almost half of all mammal species are rodents. More examples of rodents are voles, prairie dogs, groundhogs, and chinchillas.

Rabbits, hares, and pikas are sometimes called rodents, because they also have teeth that keep growing. But in 1912 biologists decided to put them in a new, separate order, Lagomorpha, because they have two extra incisors in their upper jaw.

Shrews are sometimes called rodents, because they look like mice, but that is not correct. They are in the order Insectivora.



</doc>
<doc id="24245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24245" title="Category:Rodents">
Category:Rodents

These articles are about rodents, the mammals of the order Rodentia.


</doc>
<doc id="24265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24265" title="Titan (moon)">
Titan (moon)

Titan (Ancient Greek: "Τῑτάν") is one of Saturn's moons. Its equatorial diameter (wideness at the equator) is 5,150 km and it orbits (moves in an ellipse) 1,221,865 km away from Saturn. It was found by Christiaan Huygens on March 25, 1655. Titan is the largest moon of Saturn and the second largest of the Solar System. Titan is larger (in volume) than the planet Mercury. Titan has the greatest atmosphere (most air) of any moon, with more than Earth, but humans cannot breathe it as it's very cold, and also poisonous. The air is made of nitrogen and methane. It is also the only place in the Solar System, except Earth, that has lakes and lots of liquid on its surface. However, it is liquid methane, not water.

Titan was discovered on 25 March 1655 by Christiaan Huygens, an astronomer (someone who studies planets and stars) from The Netherlands. Earlier, in 1610, the astronomer Galileo Galilei had discovered four of Jupiter's moons. This inspired Huygens: he also wanted to discover new moons. Because Huygens had also improved the telescopes of the time, making them a lot better, he thought he might be able to discover a new moon.

Christiaan and his brother, Constantijn, started to build their own telescopes in 1650. Using the first telescope he ever built, Christiaan Huygens was able to see Titan. At first he called it "Luna Saturni", which means "Saturn's moon" (he did not know there was more than one). Through the years lots of other moons have been discovered and today the moon is known as "Titan" or as "Saturn VI". The name "Titan", and all the names of Saturn's other moons, are from the Greek legends.

Titan is the only moon in the Solar System that has a thick atmosphere (the gasses that surround a planet or moon). After the spacecraft Voyager I visited the moon on 12 November 1979, it showed that Titan's surface (the ground level) is hidden under an atmosphere that is 900 km thick. Before this, everyone thought that Titan was the biggest moon in the Solar System. Now we know that it is the second biggest, after Ganymede, one of Jupiter's moons.

Even though it is smaller, Titan is close in size to Ganymede. It is also close in size to the slightly smaller Callisto, another of Jupiter's moons. Not only is Titan a big moon, it is even bigger than the planet Mercury, but it only has half as much mass (it is much lighter). Because Titan does not have a lot of mass, scientist think that Titan is made of matter that is not very heavy, specifically frozen water and ammonia. Some scientists think that there is a lot of liquid water and ammonia underneath the surface, enough to fill an entire ocean. These scientists think that there might be a form of life inside this ocean.

At its centre, Titan has a rocky core that is about 3400 km thick. This core is made up of silicates and metals. The gravity (the force that keeps everything attached to the ground) is a lot weaker than here on earth. If you could jump 1m high on the Earth, you would be able to jump 7m high on Titan.

It takes Titan 15 days and 22 hours to orbit (travel) around Saturn. This is almost the same time it takes Saturn to rotate or spin around its own axis - one full spin. This is known as "synchronous rotation", which means that the same side of Titan is always pointed to Saturn.

The path in which Titan moves, its orbit, is very close to a circle, but not quite. We use the word "eccentricity" to describe the path that a moon or planet travels in. An image with an eccentricity of 0 (zero) has a path that is a perfect circle. If the eccentricity is more than 0, the path is less round (see image below). Titan's eccentricity is 0.028, very close to zero.

On July 1, 2004, the Cassini-Huygens probe entered into orbit around Saturn. On December 25, 2004, the Huygens probe separated from the Cassini probe and started to move towards Titan. It landed on Titan's surface on January 14, 2005. It landed on a dry surface, but it confirmed that large bodies of liquid exist on the moon. The Cassini probe continued to gain data of Titan and a number of the icy moons. It found evidence that the moon Enceladus had water erupting from its geysers. Cassini also proved in July, 2006 that Titan contained hydrocarbon lakes, located near its north pole. In March, 2007, it discovered a large hydrocarbon lake the size of the Caspian Sea near its north pole. The lake of liquid methane has been named Kraken Mare. In 2009, Nasa showed a photograph showing the sunlight reflecting off the surface of the lake. This was the first ever picture of liquid on another world.



</doc>
<doc id="24266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24266" title="Computer numbering formats">
Computer numbering formats

Computer numbering formats are the ways that computers and calculators represent numbers. Most computers use a system of binary which is composed of ones and zeros.

Other systems in use are the octal (0,1-7) and the hexadecimal (0,1-9,A,B,C,D,E,F) systems.

Now we can use codes which the computer understands only, as well as other number systems.


</doc>
<doc id="24273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24273" title="1550">
1550


</doc>
<doc id="24274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24274" title="Columbus, Georgia">
Columbus, Georgia

Columbus is the third largest town, in the U.S. state of Georgia. Coca-Cola and RC Cola (Royal Crown Cola) were first made here. It is south of Atlanta. It is about one hour and thirty minutes to two hours away from Atlanta.


</doc>
<doc id="24275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24275" title="Carthage">
Carthage

Carthage is an ancient city-state in what is now Tunisia. In the "Aeneid", an old story by Vergil, Aeneas visited Carthage. He made the Queen of Carthage, Dido, angry. Carthage and Rome warred three times. These wars were the Punic Wars. In the Second Punic War, Hannibal led the Carthaginian army. Rome destroyed Carthage in 146 BC.

Carthage was created by a Phoenician, Dido. It then grew and flourished.


</doc>
<doc id="24276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24276" title="1102">
1102


</doc>
<doc id="24277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24277" title="Category:1901 births">
Category:1901 births


</doc>
<doc id="24278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24278" title="1569">
1569


</doc>
<doc id="24279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24279" title="1302">
1302



</doc>
<doc id="24280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24280" title="Brockton, Massachusetts">
Brockton, Massachusetts

Brockton is a town in Plymouth County in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. It and the town of Plymouth are the county seats of Plymouth County.


</doc>
<doc id="24281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24281" title="Rabat">
Rabat

Rabat (Arabic الرباط, transliterated ar-Rabāṭ or ar-Ribāṭ, literally "Fortified Place"), population 627 000 hab. ("2005 estimate"), is the capital of the Kingdom of Morocco. It is also the capital of the Rabat-Salé-Zemmour-Zaer region.

The city is located on the Atlantic Ocean at the mouth of the river Bou Regreg. On the other side of the river is Rabat's bedroom community. Together the two cities with Temara have a population of 1.8 million. Silting problems have lowered the city's role as a port. However, Rabat and Salé still maintain somewhat important textile, food processing and construction industries. Some are from sweatshop labor by major businesses.

In addition, tourism and being home to all foreign embassies in Morocco help to make Rabat the second most important city in the country after the larger and economically more significant Casablanca.

Rabat's history began with a settlement, known as Chellah on the banks of the Oued Bou Regreg in the third century BC. In 40 AD, Romans took over Chellah and changed it to the Roman settlement of Sala Colonia. Rome held the colony until 250 AD. They gave it up to local rulers. In 1146, the Almohad ruler Abd al-Mu'min turned Rabat's ribat into a full scale fortress. It was used as a starting point for attacks on Spain. In 1170, due to its military importance, Rabat acquired the title "Ribatu l-Fath", meaning "stronghold of victory," from which it gets its current name. 

Yaqub al-Mansur (known as Moulay Yacoub in Morocco), another Almohad Caliph, moved the capital of his empire to Rabat. He built Rabat's city walls, the Kasbah of the Udayas and began construction on what would have been the world's largest mosque. However, Yaqub died and construction stopped. The ruins of the unfinished mosque, along with the Hassan Tower, still stand today.

Yaqub's death a period of decline at first. The Almohad empire lost control of its land in Spain and much of its African territory. Eventually this led to its total collapse. In the 13th century, much of Rabat's economic power shifted to Fez. In 1515 a Moorish explorer, El Wassan, reported that Rabat had declined so much that only 100 houses remained with people living in them. An increase of Moriscos, who had been removed from Spain, in the early 17th century helped boost Rabat's growth.

Rabat and neighboring Salé united to form the Republic of Bou Regreg in 1627. The republic was run by Barbary pirates who used the two cities as base ports for starting attacks on shipping. The pirates did not have to fight with any central authority until the Alaouite Dynasty united Morocco in 1666. They attempted to establish control over the pirates, but failed. European and Muslims authorities continued to attempt to control the pirates over many years. The Republic of Bou Regreg did not collapse until 1818. Even after the republic's collapse, pirates continued to use the port of Rabat. This led to the attack of the city by Austria in 1829 after an Austrian ship had been lost to a pirate attack.

The French invaded Morocco in 1912 and established a protectorate. The French administrator of Morocco, General Hubert Lyautey, decided to move the country's capital from Fez to Rabat. Among other factors, citizens had made Fez an unstable place because of their desire to rebel. Sultan Moulay Youssef followed the decision of the French and moved his home to Rabat. In 1913, Gen. Lyautey hired Henri Prost who designed the Ville Nouvelle (Rabat's modern quarter) as an administrative sector. When Morocco became independent in 1956, Mohammed V, the then King of Morocco, chose to have the capital remain at Rabat.

After World War II, the United States created a military presence in Rabat at the former French air base. By the early 1950s, Rabat Salé Air Base was a U.S. Air Force based hosting the 17th Air Force and the 5th Air Division. These divisions oversaw forward basing for Strategic Air Command (SAC) B-47 Stratojet aircraft in the country. With the destabilization of French government in Morocco, and Moroccan independence in 1956, the government of Mohammed V wanted the U.S. Air Force to pull out of the SAC bases in Morocco. He insisted on such action after Americans became involved in Lebanon in 1958. The United States agreed to leave as of December 1959. They were fully out of Morocco by 1963. SAC felt the Moroccan bases were much less critical with the long range capability of the B-52 Stratofortresses that were replacing the B-47s. It also had completed USAF bases in Spain in 1959. 

With the USAF leaving Rabat-Salé in the 1960s, the facility became a primary facility for the Royal Moroccan Air Force known as Air Base Nº 1, a status it continues to hold.

The biggest place for theatre is the Theatre Mohamed V in the centre of the town. The city also has a few official galleries and an archeological museum. Many organisations are active in cultural and social issues. Orient-Occident Foundation and ONA Foundation are the biggest of these. An independent art scene is active in the city. L'appartement 22, which is the first independent space for visual arts created by Abdellah Karroum, opened in 2002. 

Rabat was selected as a filming location for the war film "Black Hawk Down" (2001).
Rabat will bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympic Games.
Rabat is twinned with:
Rabat features a Mediterranean climate. Located along the Atlantic Ocean, Rabat has a mild, temperate climate. It moves from cool in winter to warm days in the summer months. The nights are always cool (or colder in winter) Daytime temperatures generally always rise about +9/10 C° (+15/18 F°) every day. The winter highs usually reach only in December-January ("see weather-table below").




</doc>
<doc id="24283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24283" title="1222">
1222


</doc>
<doc id="24284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24284" title="Duke Kahanamoku">
Duke Kahanamoku

Duke Kahanamoku (August 24, 1890 – January 22, 1968), was a Hawaiian athlete who is called the inventor of modern surfing. He was also on the United States Olympic team as a swimmer, and won several silver and gold medals. Contrary to some misinformation on the internet, Duke is not known as the Big Kahuna. He himself rejected that term, because he knew its meaning. The Big Kahuna is a character in the Gidget story, which is based on a portrayal of Tube Steak Tracy, a famous surfer of the '40s & '50s in Malibu.


</doc>
<doc id="24285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24285" title="Overland Park, Kansas">
Overland Park, Kansas

Overland Park is a city in the U.S. state of Kansas. It's a suburb of Kansas City. 


</doc>
<doc id="24286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24286" title="Bedford">
Bedford

Bedford is the county town of Bedfordshire, England. It has a population of more than 79.000 people (100.000 if the people living in Kempston are included). Many people also live in the smaller villages around Bedford.

The town of Bedford is about 1000 years old. There was a castle there, but it was destroyed in 1224. There is a small hill now in the place where the castle used to be. It overlooks the river Ouse which flows through the town. Bedford was a market town from the early Middle Ages. It was given its borough charter in 1166 by Henry II.

During the last century many people moved to Bedford because there were good schools there. There are five public schools which are governed by the Harpur Trust, as well as several state schools and some smaller private schools. Many students study at the University of Bedfordshire, which is now based in Bedford and Luton. Hundreds of school children can take part in Bedfordshire Youth Music courses during the holidays. There is also a Bedfordshire Youth Theatre.

The town of Bedford has some nice places to walk along the banks of the River Great Ouse. The banks of the river by the town centre are called The Embankment. There are nice gardens there and two bridges for pedestrians only. The newer of these bridges is known as the “Butterfly Bridge” because it is shaped like a butterfly.

Every two years, an event called Bedford River Festival is held near the river in Bedford during early July. The event lasts for two days. About 250,000 people go there to enjoy all the events, the sports, food, funfairs and live music.
The big church in the centre of the town is called St Paul’s Church. It stands in St Paul’s Square. It has a tall spire which can be seen from a long way away. There was a church there in 1066. The present church was started in the early 13th century and gradually more parts were added. The tower and spire were completely rebuilt in the 1860s. John Bunyan and John Wesley both preached in the church. There is a stained glass window dedicated to Sir William Harpur who gave his money to charity in the 16th century allowing almshouses and schools to be built in Bedford.

There are museums in Bedford. The Cecil Higgins Art Gallery is in the Victorian home of the Higgins family who used to be brewers. A modern building next to it has paintings, ceramics, glass and lace. The Bedford Museum is next door and has things from Bedford’s history. Just round the corner is the John Bunyan museum showing things about Bedford’s most famous writer.

Bedford Hospital is split between two sites in the town. It serves people from the whole of Mid Bedford. Many discussions are still taking place about the future of the hospital and how it should be organized.

There are many shops in the town centre, as well as out-of-town shopping areas. The Aspects Leisure Centre has cinemas and other amusements. It is near the opposite end of the Embankment from the town centre.

There is a lot of opportunity to hear music in Bedford. Many local musicians play in the Bedfordshire Symphony Orchestra and the Bedford Sinfonia. They give their concerts in the Corn Exchange in St Paul’s Square, where one can also hear concerts given by the famous professional Philharmonia Orchestra who give a series of concerts during the year. There are several amateur choirs including the large Bedford Choral Society and the chamber choirs Cantamus and Concord Singers. The Bedford Music Club organizes chamber concerts on Thursdays during the year, and there are many other musical events including lunch hour concerts at St Paul’s Church. In August the 'Proms In The Park' takes place in Bedford Park. It is given by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and attracts thousands of people who take rugs and food and sit on the grass to listen to the music.

Although Bedford has no large theatre there are many amateur groups such as the Bedford Dramatic Club, Swan Theatre Company, Bedford Marianettes who perform in several places such as the Bowen West Theatre and Civic Theatre. There are also several local bands.

As Bedford has a river there is a lot of opportunity for rowing. Bedford has two rugby union teams called Bedford Blues and Bedford Athletic. Bedford Blues are now in the second tier of English rugby, although they have previously been in the top division. Bedford has an athletic stadium.
Bedford’s main railway station is in Midland Road. Capital Connect run trains from Bedford to Brighton passing through London, and Midland Main Line have trains that go from London, passing through Bedford on their way to Leeds. There are also trains to Bletchley in Milton Keynes, and the Marston Vale Line which also stops at Bedford St Johns railway station.

There is a lot of traffic in Bedford as several roads spread out from the centre of the town in all directions. The M1 is 8 miles to the west, and the Al is about the same distance to the east. Bedford now has a by-pass, but it is not yet a complete ring road. The section between the A428 and A6 is not yet built.

Buses from Bedford travel to Northampton, Milton Keynes, Cambridge, Oxford and other towns in the region. Most of these services depart from the main bus station in the town. This bus station is soon going to be rebuilt.

There are many Italian people living in Bedford. Many of them came from the 1950s onwards to work at the brickworks of the London Brick Company. There are many Italian bars and restaurants and social clubs as well as a church and a vice-consulate. Many of the people who came in the 1950s now have grandchildren growing up in Bedford, and many of them have married people from other cultures. More recently many people have immigrated from other parts of the world such as South Asia and Eastern Europe (particularly in the last few years), Greece, Cyprus, the Middle East and Africa. Many languages are spoken in Bedford including Italian, Punjabi, Turkish, Polish, Portuguese, Cantonese and Mandarin Chinese. There is a big, new Sikh temple in the district known as Queen’s Park.

Bedford is twinned with:

The town of Kempston has now grown to be part of Bedford. The villages in the Borough of Bedford with populations of more than 2,000 are Biddenham, Bromham, Clapham, Elstow, Oakley, Sharnbrook, Shortstown, Wilstead, and Wootton. There are also many smaller villages in the borough. The villages in the borough are popular with commuters to Bedford, and also with people who commute to Milton Keynes, which is a bigger employment centre than Bedford, and to London.

The most famous person from Bedford was John Bunyan, the author of "The Pilgrim's Progress". He was born in Harrowden, near Elstow which is just outside Bedford. Later he lived in St Cuthbert Street, which is the next street east parallel to the High Street, but was still just at the edge of Bedford at that time. Bunyan Meeting is a church on the site where Bunyan, at the end of his life, was allowed to have a barn to preach. It is joined to the Bunyan Museum. There is a statue of Bunyan on the corner of the High Street by Bedford School.

Other famous Bedfordians include Sir William Harpur, the philanthropist, John Howard, the prison reformer, Charles Wells, founder of Charles Wells Brewery, a company which is still in the town, Ronnie Barker the comedian and John Le Mesurier, actor and comedian. People who went to school in Bedford include the politician Paddy Ashdown, the cricketer Alastair Cook, the playwright Christopher Fry and the athlete Paula Radcliffe.


</doc>
<doc id="24287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24287" title="Pentomino">
Pentomino

A pentomino is a 2D shape made out of 5 side-by-side equal-sized squares. They can be found in the books Chasing vermeer and The Wright 3

These are the 12 pentominos:



</doc>
<doc id="24288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24288" title="Ejaculation">
Ejaculation

Ejaculation happens when the body shoots out fluid after it has been aroused or stimulated (excited sexually). Many animals ejaculate when they reproduce sexually. This article is about ejaculation in human beings. It is well known that a man ejaculates when he has an orgasm. However, it is believed that women also ejaculate.

When a man is stimulated, his penis becomes erect. When he has an orgasm, semen comes out from the end of his penis. Semen contains sperm and other substances. How long a man can be stimulated before ejaculating, how long the ejaculation lasts, the strength of the ejaculation, and the amount of semen that comes out, all vary from one man to another. When a man ejaculates, he has a very good feeling in his penis and his groin area (the part of his body where his torso joins the top of his legs). A man can ejaculate after he masturbates or is touched by someone else sexually, or even if he is not touched (for example, if he looks at sexy pictures, watches sexy videos or thinks about sex). Ejaculation can also happen without control when a man is sleeping. Boys do not ejaculate until they reach puberty.

Scientists now think that women can also ejaculate when they have an orgasm. They think that a woman ejaculates when her Gräfenberg spot or "G-spot", which is near the front of the vagina, is stimulated, and that the fluid comes out from somewhere near the opening of the urethra into the vulva. They also think that the fluid is produced by the Skene's glands. This fluid contains glucose and fructose, which are kinds of sugars, and other chemicals.

In grammar, an ejaculation is something spoken rather suddenly to express a feeling. "Oh!", "Hey!" and "My goodness!" are ejaculations. Although it was common at the end of the 19th century and the start of the 20th century to call such terms "ejaculations", today it is considered old-fashioned.

In a man, ejaculation is what happens when semen shoots out of the end of the penis. Slang terms for ejaculation are "blowing a load" or "blowing a wad", "busting a nut", "creaming", "cumming", "jizzing" and "skeeting". Ejaculation takes place when the man has an orgasm (the height of sexual excitement), usually after his genitals have been physically stimulated in some way. However, ejaculation can also happen if a man has not been touched, for instance if he becomes aroused or stimulated (made sexually excited) by looking at sexy pictures, watching sexy videos, or thinking about sex. When a man ejaculates while sleeping, it is called nocturnal emission.

Before a man can ejaculate, his penis needs to be stimulated. The penis is usually soft, quite short and hangs down. When a man is stimulated, for example by seeing another naked person, masturbating or being touched by someone else sexually, the inside of his penis fills with blood. This causes it to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright, and is called having an erection. Men can be stimulated for different amounts of time before they ejaculate.

Ejaculation takes place in two stages.



After a man has ejaculated, his penis usually becomes soft and shorter again. He may also have an enjoyable and relaxing feeling in his groin area. It takes some time before he can have another erection and ejaculation. This time is called the refractory period. The average refractory period is about half an hour. Younger men normally have a shorter refractory period than older men. Men who are 18 years old have a refractory period of about 15 minutes, while men in their 70s have one of about 20 hours. Some men's penises remain hard after one ejaculation, and they are able to have another ejaculation after some time without losing their erection. Most young and middle-aged men can probably have about two to three ejaculations in a few hours, but it has been said that some men are able to have up to nine ejaculations a day.

When a man ejaculates before he wants to, this is called premature ejaculation. If a man cannot ejaculate after having been aroused for a long time, even though he wants to, this is called delayed ejaculation or anorgasmia. A man who is unable to ejaculate at all is said to have anejaculation. Some men are able to have an orgasm without ejaculating. This is called a dry orgasm.
Apart from giving a man pleasure, ejaculation may help a man stay healthy. A study carried out in Australia seemed to show that men who ejaculate often have less chance of getting prostate cancer.

Semen is known informally as "cum", "jism" or "jizz". Men ejaculate different amounts of semen. Normally, an ejaculation makes between 1.5 and 5 millilitres (up to one teaspoonful) of semen. More semen tends to come out if a man has not ejaculated for many days, or if he has been stimulated for a long time. Older men produce less semen. If a man ejaculates an unusually small amount of semen, this is a medical condition called hypospermia.

Semen is usually a white or yellowish fluid. It starts off being slightly thick and sticky, then after a while it becomes more watery. Semen contains many chemicals. These include citric acid, fructose (a type of sugar), enzymes that speed up chemical reactions in the body, lipids (substances that fat is made of), and slippery fluids that help the semen to move through the urethra.

The number of sperm in an ejaculation of semen depends on many things. There may be more sperm if:


If there are an unusually low number of sperm in an ejaculation, this is called oligospermia. If there are no sperm at all, this is called azoospermia. A man with oligospermia or azoospermia is usually infertile, and cannot or finds it very hard to make a woman pregnant by having sex with her.

If a man has a sexually transmitted infection or STI (an infection that is passed from one person to another by sex), the germs that cause the disease can appear in his semen. If the person that the man has sex with touches the semen, he or she can become infected by the germs and pick up the disease. AIDS, gonorrhea, hepatitis B, herpes and syphillis are examples of STIs. One of the ways for a man to lower the chance of passing on an STI to his sexual partner is to wear a condom on his penis when having sex.

When a man has sexual intercourse with a woman, he places his penis within her vagina and moves it in and out. The vagina is warm and soft, and it places pressure on the man's penis. These sensations, combined with the in-and-out movements, stimulates the penis, which causes the man to have an orgasm and to ejaculate. If the woman is using birth control this will usually not cause her to become pregnant. Otherwise, the sperm in the semen can travel into the woman's uterus and Fallopian tubes. If there happens to be an ovum or egg cell in a Fallopian tube, a sperm may fuse with the ovum. This is called fertilization, and makes the woman pregnant.

However, before a man ejaculates, a clear, colourless, sticky fluid called pre-ejaculate (also known as pre-ejaculate fluid or informally as pre-cum) can come out of his penis. Pre-ejaculate is produced by the bulbourethral or Cowper's glands. Some tests have shown that pre-ejaculate does not contain any sperm. However, some sperm may have been left behind in the urethra from an earlier ejaculation and the pre-ejaculate may carry this sperm out of the penis. That is why a woman can become pregnant even if the man pulls his penis out of her vagina before he ejaculates. Also, if a man ejaculates near the woman's vagina and semen falls on her body, sperm can accidentally enter the vagina and cause a pregnancy. To avoid the woman becoming pregnant when she does not want to, the man and the woman can use methods of contraception or birth control. For example, the man can wear a condom on his penis, or the woman can take birth control pills.

Young boys cannot ejaculate. A boy's first ejaculation usually happens about one year after he begins puberty, which is when his body starts changing into a man's body. Most boys go through puberty in their teens. The first time a boy ejaculates usually happens when he is asleep. This is called a nocturnal emission (which means "an emission happening at night") or a wet dream. It happens without the boy's control, often when he is having a dream about sex. Scientists believe that wet dreams are the body's way of removing too much semen. When a boy begins masturbating, wet dreams usually stop happening.

When a boy starts to ejaculate, he usually produces only a small amount of semen. The semen is different from what an adult man produces. It is usually clear and stays sticky. It either has no sperm in it, or sperm that do not move properly or do not move at all. A boy's semen only becomes like an adult man's semen about two years after his first ejaculation.

Female ejaculation, informally known as gushing or squirting, happens when a woman has an orgasm and clear fluid comes out of her. Scientists are not sure how the fluid is produced, but think it comes from the Skene's glands (also called the paraurethral glands or female prostate). Female ejaculation was mentioned in ancient times by the Greek philosopher Aristotle (384–322 B.C.), and by doctors and people who study anatomy. However, in much of the 20th century there were people who did not believe that female ejaculation existed, and it was not studied in detail. More people found out about the matter after a book called "The G Spot" came out in 1982 and became popular. After that, more research was done on female ejaculation.

Many doctors and scientists now agree that there is such a thing as female ejaculation, but do not know much about how it happens or how the woman's body makes the fluid ejaculated. Some think that female ejaculation mostly happens when a woman's Gräfenberg spot or "G-spot", which is near the front of the vagina, is stimulated. It is not known for sure if the fluid is ejaculated from the urethra or the vagina. However, in 2007, tests by researchers from Vienna in Austria found that there is tissue like glands around a woman's urethra, and that substances made by the tissue enter the urethra near its opening into the vulva. Therefore, it is more likely that during female ejaculation the fluid comes out from the urethra. It is thought that the Skene's glands make the fluid because female ejaculate contains a protein called prostate-specific antigen (PSA), and the Skene's gland is known to make PSA.

Scientists have asked women about female ejaculation. Between 54% and 60% of these women said that when they had an orgasm, fluid came out of them. Out of these women, 6% said they ejaculated regularly and that it was strong, while 13% said they ejaculated now and then. A doctor called Gary Schubach believes that most women can learn how to ejaculate if taught how.

Some scientists think that "female ejaculation" is just urine leaking out of a woman's urethra. However, studies show that the fluid ejaculated is not exactly the same as urine, although it has small amounts of urine in it. The fluid is alkaline and has these substances in it:


Some diseases or sicknesses can cause large amounts of fluid to come out of women. For example, fluid can come out of a woman's vagina if she has an infection of the vagina or a sexually transmitted infection (STI). Some women also suffer from urinary stress incontinence, which means that sometimes they cannot stop urine from leaking out. Because of this, if large amounts of fluid come out from a woman's vulva, it is a good idea for her to see a doctor in case it is not female ejaculation but some kind of sickness.


</doc>
<doc id="24289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24289" title="Team">
Team

A team is a group of people who have a certain task to complete. In order to meet their target, the members of the group must work well with each other.

Successful team - a group of people who tend to meet their target without facing any sort of barrier. The group members cooperate with each other and take other members' ideas into consideration.

Unsuccessful team - a group of people who have a very difficult time when attempting to complete a certain task. The members of the group think of only themselves and create an uncomfortable environment for other members of the team.


</doc>
<doc id="24294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24294" title="Emperor Shōwa">
Emperor Shōwa

, also known as , was the 124th emperor of Japan according to the traditional order of succession. His reign started on December 25, 1926 and ended with his death in 1989. 

The name "Shōwa" was given to Hirohito after he died. Emperors of Japan are normally renamed in this way; and people started using the new name in 1990. During his long reign, many people outside Japan call him Emperor Hirohito, or just Hirohito.

Prince Hirohito was named regent for his father in 1921. He became emperor after his father's death.

Hirohito was the emperor of Japan during the war in the Pacific and Asia from 1931 to 1945. His role in this period is controversial.

After Japan's defeat in the war, the role of emperor changed. The emperor became a symbol of the state.

Hirohito was the first emperor to travel outside Japan. He visited Europe in 1971 and he traveled to the United States in 1975.

After his passing, cancer was revealed as the cause of the emperor's death. 

He was succeeded by his son, Prince Akihito.

The state funeral for the late emperor was an international event. World leaders attending the funeral included U.S. President George H. W. Bush, French President François Mitterrand, the Duke of Edinburgh. 

Emperor Shōwa is buried in the Imperial mausoleum in Hachiōji along with Emperor Taishō.

In an overview of writings by and about Hirohito, OCLC/WorldCat includes roughly 900+ works in 1,500 publications in 15 languages and 31,000 library holdings . 






</doc>
<doc id="24297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24297" title="Human evolution">
Human evolution

Human evolution is about the origin of the human beings. All humans belong to the same species, which has spread from its birthplace in Africa to almost all parts of the world. Its origin in Africa is proved by the fossils which have been found there.

The term 'human' in this context means the genus "Homo". However, studies of human evolution usually include other hominids, such as the Australopithecines, from which the genus "Homo" had diverged (split) by about 2.3 to 2.4 million years ago in Africa.

It was known for a long time – several centuries – that man and the apes were related. At heart, their anatomy is similar, despite many superficial differences. This was the reason why Buffon and Linnaeus, in the 18th century, put them together in one family. Charles Darwin's theory of evolution says that such basic structural similarity comes from the common origin of the group. The apes and man are close relatives, and are primates: the order of mammals which includes monkeys, apes, lemurs and tarsiers. 

The great apes live in tropical rainforests. It is thought that human evolution started when a group of apes began to live more in the savannah. Savannah is more open, with trees, shrubs and grass. This group, the australopithecines started walking on two legs. They began to use their hands to carry things. Life in the open was quite different, and there was a big advantage in having better brains. Their brains grew to be much larger, and they began to make simple tools. All this began at least 5 million years ago. We have fossils of two or three different groups of walking apes, and one was the ancestor of humans.

The biological name for "human" or "man" is "Homo". The modern human species is called "Homo sapiens". "Sapiens" means "thought". "Homo sapiens" means "the thinking man". 

The science that is concerned with finding out how human evolution happened is called "physical anthropology" or "paleoanthropology". It explains how the human race developed, by looking at ancient humans fossils, tools, and other signs of human life in the past. The modern field of paleoanthropology began in the 19th century with the discovery of a skull of "Neanderthal man" in 1856.

By 1859, zoologists had known for a long time that humans were, in their anatomy similar to the great apes. There were also differences: humans can speak, for example. But the similarities were more basic than the differences. Humans also have features with a much older history, from early in the life of vertebrates. 

The idea that species were the result of evolution had been proposed before Darwin, but his book gave much evidence, and many were persuaded by it. The book was "On the Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection", published in November 1859. In this book, Darwin wrote about the idea of evolution in general, rather than the evolution of humans. "Light will be thrown on the origin of man and his history," was all Darwin wrote on the subject. Nevertheless, the implications of the theory were clear to the readers of the time.

Different people discussed the evolution of humans. Among them were Thomas Huxley and Charles Lyell. Huxley convincingly illustrated many of the similarities and differences between humans and apes in his 1863 book "Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature". When Darwin published his own book on the subject, "The Descent of Man, and selection in relation to sex", the idea of human evolution was already well-known. The theory was controversial. Even some of Darwin's supporters (such as Alfred Russel Wallace and Charles Lyell) did not like the idea that human beings have evolved their impressive mental capacities and moral sensibilities through natural selection.

Since the 18th century, scientists thought the great apes to be closely related to human beings. In the 19th century, they speculated that the closest living relatives of humans were either chimpanzees or gorillas. Both live in central Africa in tropical rainforests, mainly of the Congo. It turns out that the chimpanzee species are closest to us. Biologists believed that humans share a "common ancestor" with other African great apes and that fossils of these ancestors would be found in Africa, which they have been. It is now accepted by virtually all biologists that humans are not only similar to the great apes, but actually are great apes.

The issue was finally settled in modern times by studies on the sequences of proteins and genes in apes and man. These studies showed that man shares about 98/99% of these structures with chimpanzees. This is a much closer relationship than with any other type of animal, and fully supports the ideas put forward in the 19th century by Darwin and Huxley.

Primates have diversified in habitats such as trees and bushes. They retain many features which are adaptations to this environment. Here are some of those traits:

Not all primates exhibit these anatomical traits, nor is every trait unique to primates. In regard to behavior, primates are frequently highly social, live in groups with 'flexible dominance hierarchies'.

Closely related animals almost always have closely related parasites. This usually comes about because parasites evolve with their hosts, and when host populations split, their parasites split also. It is also possible for parasites to get from one species to another. Two of the most serious parasitic infections of humans in Africa have originated in apes. Each may have been transferred to humans by a single cross-species event. 

There are several species of mosquito, and several species of the malarial parasite "Plasmodium". The most serious type, "P. falciparum", which kills many millions of people each year, originated in gorillas. It is now virtually certain that chimpanzees are the source of HIV-1, the major cause of AIDS. This information is got by the sequence analysis of the nucleic acid of ape and human parasites.

The relevance of this to evolution is that our physiology is so close to the apes that their parasites were able to transfer to humans with great success. Humans have much less resistance to these parasites, which are ancient in origin, but comparatively new to our species.

It was not until the 1920s that hominid fossils were discovered in Africa. In 1924, Raymond Dart described "Australopithecus africanus". The specimen was called the Taung Child, an australopithecine infant discovered in a cave deposit being mined for concrete at Taung, South Africa. The remains were a remarkably well-preserved tiny skull and a cast of the inside of the individual's skull. Although the brain was small (410 cm³), its shape was rounded, unlike that of chimpanzees and gorillas, and more like a modern human brain. Also, the specimen exhibited short canine teeth, and the position of the foramen magnum was evidence of bipedal locomotion. All of these traits convinced Dart that the Taung baby was a bipedal human ancestor, a transitional form between apes and humans. 

It took another 20 years before Dart's claims were taken seriously. This was after other similar skeletons had been found. The most common view of the time was that a large brain evolved "before" bipedality, the ability to move on two feet. It was thought that intelligence similar to that of modern humans was a prerequisite to bipedalism. 

The australopithecines are now thought to be immediate ancestors of the genus "Homo", the group to which modern humans belong. Both australopithecines and "Homo sapiens" are part of the tribe Hominini, but recent data has brought into doubt the position of "A. africanus" as a direct ancestor of modern humans; it may well have been a cousin. The australopithecines were originally classified as either gracile or robust. The robust variety of "Australopithecus" has since been reclassified as "Paranthropus", although it is still regarded as a subgenus of "Australopithecus" by some authors.

In the 1930s, when the robust specimens were first described, the "Paranthropus" genus was used. During the 1960s, the robust variety was moved into "Australopithecus". The recent trend has been back to the original classification as a separate genus.

It was Carolus Linnaeus who chose the name "Homo". Today, there is only one species in the genus: "Homo sapiens". There were other species, but they became extinct. 

The figure shows where some of them lived and at what time. Some of the other species might have been ancestors of "H. sapiens". Many were likely our "cousins", they developed away from our ancestral line. 

Anthropologists are still investigating the exact line of descent. A consensus on which should count as separate species and which as subspecies has not been reached yet. In some cases this is because there are very few fossils, in other cases it is due to the slight differences used to classify species in the "Homo" genus.

The evolution of the genus "Homo" took place mostly in the Pleistocene. The whole genus is characterised by its use of stone tools, initially crude, and becoming ever more sophisticated. So much so that in archaeology and anthropology the Pleistocene is usually referred to as the Palaeolithic, or the Stone Age.

"Homo habilils" was likely the first species of Homo. It developed from the Australopithecus, about 2.5 million years ago. It lived until about 1.4 million years ago. It had smaller molars (back teeth) and larger brains than the Australopithecines.

There are two proposed species that lived from 1.9 to 1.6 million years ago. Their relation has not been clarified. One of them is called "Homo rudolfensis". It is known from a single incomplete skull from Kenya. Scientists have suggested that this was just another habilis, but this has not been confirmed. The other is currently called "Homo georgicus". It is from Georgia and may be an intermediate form between "H. habilis" and "H. erectus", or a sub-species of "H. erectus".

"Homo erectus" was first discovered on the island of Java in Indonesia, in 1891. The discoverer, Eugene Dubois originally called it "Pithecanthropus erectus" based on its morphology that he considered to be intermediate between that of humans and apes. Homo erectus lived lived from about 1.8 million to 70,000 years ago. The earlier specimens (from 1.8 to 1.2 million years ago) are sometimes seen as a different species, or a subspecies. called "Homo ergaster", or "Homo erectus ergaster'. 

In the Early Pleistocene, 1.5–1 mya, in Africa, Asia, and Europe, presumably, some populations of "Homo habilis" evolved larger brains and made more elaborate stone tools; these differences and others are sufficient for anthropologists to classify them as a new species, "H. erectus". In addition "H. erectus" was the first human ancestor to walk truly upright. This was made possible by the evolution of locking knees and a different location of the foramen magnum (the hole in the skull where the spine enters). They may have used fire to cook their meat.

A famous example of "Homo erectus" is Peking Man; others were found in Asia (notably in Indonesia), Africa, and Europe. Many paleoanthropologists are now using the term "Homo ergaster" for the non-Asian forms of this group. They reserve "H. erectus" only for those fossils found in the Asian region that meet certain requirements (as to skeleton and skull) which differ slightly from ergaster.

"Homo neaderthalensis" (usually called Neanderthal man) lived from about 250,000 to about 30,000 years ago. Also, less usual, as "Homo sapiens neanderthalensis": there is still some discussion if it was a separate species "Homo neanderthalensis", or a subspecies of "H. sapiens". While the debate remains unsettled, evidence from mitochondrial DNA and Y-chromosomal DNA sequencing indicates that little or no gene flow occurred between "H. neanderthalensis" and "H. sapiens", and, therefore, the two were separate species. In 1997, Dr. Mark Stoneking, then an associate professor of anthropology at Pennsylvania State University, stated: 
More investigation of a second source of Neanderthal DNA supported these findings.

A genetic analysis of a piece of finger bone found in Siberia has produced a surprise result. It dates to about 40,000 years ago, at a time when Neanderthals and modern man were living in the area. German researchers found its mitochondrial DNA did not match either our species or Neanderthals. The possibility is that the bone may belong to a previously unknown species. The degree of difference in the DNA suggests this species split off from our family tree about a million years ago, well before the split between our species and Neanderthals.

"Homo floresiensis", which lived about 100,000–12,000 years ago has been nicknamed "hobbit" for its small size. Its size may be a result of island dwarfism, the tendency for large mammals to evolve smaller forms on islands. "H. floresiensis" is intriguing both for its size and its age. It is a concrete example of a recent species of the genus "Homo" that shows derived traits not shared with modern humans. In other words, "H. floresiensis" share a common ancestor with modern humans, but split from the modern human lineage and followed a different evolutionary path. The main find was a skeleton believed to be a woman of about 30 years of age. Found in 2003 it has been dated to approximately 18,000 years old. The living woman was estimated to be one meter in height, with a brain volume of just 380 cm (considered small for a chimpanzee and less than a third of the "H. sapiens" average of 1400 cm).

There is an ongoing debate over whether "H. floresiensis" is indeed a separate species. Some scientists believe that "H. floresiensis" was a modern "H. sapiens" suffering from pathological dwarfism. Modern humans who live on Flores, the island where the skeleton was found, are pygmies. This fact is consistent with either theory. One line of attack on "H. floresiensis" is that it was found with tools only associated with "H. sapiens".

Stone artefacts have now been found on Flores which can be dated to a million years ago. These artefacts are "proxies"; which means there were no skeletons of humans, but only a species of "Homo" could have made the artefacts. The artefacts are flakes and other implements, 48 in all, some of which show signs of being worked to produce a cutting edge. This means that humans were present on Flores by that date, but it does not tell us which species that was.

"Homo sapiens" has lived from about 250,000 years ago to the present. Between 400,000 years ago and the second warm period in the Middle Pleistocene, around 250,000 years ago, its skull grew and more sophisticated technologies based on stone tools developed. One possibility is that a transition between "H. erectus" to "H. sapiens" occurred. The evidence of Java Man suggests there was an initial migration of "H. erectus" out of Africa. Then, much later, a further development of "H. sapiens" from "H. erectus" in Africa. Then a subsequent migration within and out of Africa eventually replaced the earlier "H. erectus". 

Studies of human Y-chromosome DNA and mitochondrial DNA have largely supported a recent African origin. Evidence from autosomal DNA also supports the recent African origin. The details of this great saga are not fully established yet, but by about 90,000 years ago they had moved into Eurasia and the Middle East. This was the area where Neanderthals, "Homo neanderthalensis", had been living for a long time (at least 350,000 years).

By about 42 to 44,000 years ago "Homo sapiens" had reached western Europe, including Britain. In Europe and western Asia, "Homo sapiens" replaced the Neanderthals by about 35,000 years ago. The details of how this happened are not known.

At roughly the same time "Homo sapiens" arrived in Australia. Their arrival in the Americas was much later, about 15,000 years ago. All these earlier groups of modern man were hunter-gatherers.

Current research has established that human beings are genetically rather homogenous (similar). The DNA of individuals is more alike than usual for most species. This may have resulted from their relatively recent evolution or from the Toba catastrophe. Distinctive genetic have arisen as a result of small groups of people moving into new environmental circumstances. These adapted traits are a very small component of the "Homo sapiens" genome and include such outward 'racial' characteristics as skin color and nose shape, and internal characteristics such as the ability to breathe more efficiently at high altitudes.

"H. sapiens idaltu", from Ethiopia, about 160,000 years ago, is a proposed subspecies. It is the oldest known anatomically modern human.

This list is in chronological order by genus.



</doc>
<doc id="24298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24298" title="Ancient Rome">
Ancient Rome

Ancient Rome is the name for a civilization which began as a small farming community in the 10th century BC Italy. It grew to become the largst empire in the ancient world. It started as a monarchy, then became a republic, then an empire.

The Roman Empire was so big that there were problems ruling a territory which stretched from Britain to the Middle East. In 293 AD, Diocletian split the empire into two parts. A century later, in 395 AD, it was permanently split into the Western Roman Empire and the Eastern Roman Empire.

The Western Empire ended because of the Germanic tribe, the Visigoths in 476 AD. In the 5th century AD, the western part of the empire split up into different kingdoms. The eastern Roman Empire stayed together as the Byzantine Empire. The Byzantine Empire would be defeated by the Ottoman Empire in 1453.

Roman culture spread to Western Europe and the area around the Mediterranean Sea. Its history still has a big influence on the world today. For example, Roman ideas about laws, government, art, literature, and language are important to European culture. The Roman language, Latin, slowly evolved becoming modern French, Spanish, Italian, and Romanian, and influenced many other languages like English.

Beginning with Emperor Nero in the first century AD, the Roman government did not like Christianity. At some points, people could be put to death because they were Christians. Under Emperor Diocletian, the persecution of Christians because the strongest. However, Christianity became an officially supported religion in the Roman Empire under Constantine I, who was the next Emperor. With the signing of the Edict of Milan in 313, it quickly became the biggest religion. All religions except Christianity were banned in 391 AD by an edict of Emperor Theodosius I.

The Byzantines were threatened by the rise of Islam, whose followers took over the territories of Syria, Armenia and Egypt and soon threatened to take over Constantinople. In the next century, the Arabs also captured southern Italy and Sicily.

The Byzantines, however, managed to stop Islamic invader from moving further into their lands during the 8th century and, beginning in the 9th century, took parts of the conquered lands back over. In 1000 AD, the Eastern Empire was at its largest point: Basileios II reconquered Bulgaria and Armenia, culture and trade flourished. However, the expansion was suddenly stopped in 1071 at the Battle of Manzikert. This finally made the empire start becoming weaker. Several centuries of fighting and Turkic invasions ultimately made it possible for Emperor Alexius I Comnenus to send a call for help to the West in 1095. 

The West responded with the Crusades, eventually resulting in the Sack of Constantinople by participants in the Fourth Crusade. The conquest of Constantinople in 1204 split what little land remained in the Empire into new countries, the ultimate winner being Nicaea. After the recapture of Constantinople by Imperial forces, the empire was little more than a Greek state confined to the Aegean coast. The Eastern Empire came to an end when Mehmed II conquered Constantinople on 29 May 1453.




</doc>
<doc id="24300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24300" title="Globalization">
Globalization

Globalization is the way that local or national ways of doing things become global, that is, done together around the world. It is about economics or trade, technology, politics, and culture. People feel differently about globalisation: some think it helps everyone while others think it hurts some people.

When most people talk about globalization, they usually mean changes in the economy that happen because of free trade and technology. In the late 20th century, many countries agreed to lower tariffs, or taxes on goods that are imported from other countries. The Internet and other communication technologies also made it easy for people to buy and sell products to people around the world. 

Herman E. Daly has said that there is an important difference between internationalization and globalization. Internationalization is about nations working together for the same goals. These are things like treaties, alliances, and other international agreements. Globalization is about making national borders less important for those who want to buy or sell things around the world. He says that globalization is making "national economies into one global economy" because many depend on people from other countries.

Some people, like Noam Chomsky, do not like globalization because they feel it only helps rich people get richer by making poor people poorer. Offshore outsourcing, when companies hire workers in cheaper countries, is often a part of globalization. This sometimes means that some people lose their jobs. Joseph Stiglitz has said that international groups like the World Bank and the IMF have made it harder for poorer nations to get richer. Critics of globalization also feel that it leads to global brands, like Coca-Cola and McDonald's, taking over smaller, local shops and businesses. Jean Baudrillard believes that globalization hurts local cultures and is the cause of most terrorism. He also believes that most critics of globalization just want to stay in power.

Others, like Thomas Friedman, believe that globalization can bring people together and make everyone richer without getting rid of local cultures. People who support globalization also believe that it makes war less likely because it is bad for business. Friedman believed that no two nations with a McDonald's would ever go to war with each other. After NATO bombed Serbia, he changed and said that no two nations who make products for Dell Computers would ever go to war. 

Many believe that globalization helps out poorer nations by bringing them business. A report by the World Bank said that poverty in India and Indonesia was cut in half because of globalization. The report also said that people in poorer nations are living longer and better because they were making more money.



</doc>
<doc id="24301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24301" title="North Holland">
North Holland

North Holland is a province (area with a local government) of the Netherlands. It is in the northwest. The capital is called Haarlem. Other cities in the province are Amsterdam, Hilversum, Alkmaar, Zaandam, and Hoorn.


</doc>
